Flammability, Incorporeal Creatures and the Parking Lot of 
Eternity

Vasileios Kalampakas

John was the best I'd ever seen with a blowtorch. He wielded it 
like Da Vinci wielded a god-damn paintbrush. He could do things 
with it that in many places were certainly illegal and definitely 
deranged, with the possible exception of Japan and/or Australia.

There was this thing about John and the blue-hot propane flames 
that bordered - nay, even surpassed - the realm of wonder. If 
Jesus could come down and visit from Heaven and work with a 
blowtorch next to John, he'd look like a pyromaniac hobo with a 
messiah complex and a background in carpentry, while John would 
just shine with a bright white light from within, turn water into 
beer and beer into piss with just a look. John was just that 
good.

So it was a fucking bummer when I learned that his last words 
actually were: “Don't be a pussy, oxygen tanks do that hissing 
sound all the time.”

As far as classifying bummers goes, this was a triple-A class 
bummer, the kind of showstopper that had only been theorised up 
to John's untimely and gruesome death. The kind of bummer that 
could make Jim Carey's face flat and emotionless and Bill Clinton 
sworn to celibacy. It ranked way far above the A-plus bummer of 
being recently divorced, fired, being fired upon and being set on 
fire at the same time.

Which was bad in and of itself, but not as bad as John getting 
blown up a day before the Job. That was a sad state of affairs 
that meant I was now a very sorry son of a bitch with a life 
expectancy that made the term “lifetime warranty” sound like a 
tasteless practical joke.

So here I was, melting away in a decrepit diner on route 72, at a 
swampy nowhere with some supposedly native american though 
actually gibberish name like 'Alatanoosa' or 'Whahananoka', 
someplace between Alabama and Tenessee. The coffee tasted like 
imported dirt, the kind of dirt you read about being very 
fashionable and exaggeratedly overpriced but at the end of the 
day, was just dirt. The fried eggs looked like fried eggs, but 
only in the most rudimentary way: there was an orange bit with 
some white plastic all around it. I guess my flair for adventure 
was wearing out so it just sat there, where I happily failed to 
ingest it. 

I really didn't feel like eating at all. Maybe it was the 
god-damn heat, the stale humid air and the fact that about the 
same time tomorrow, I would be probably looking at the wrong end 
of more than a couple of gun barrels because I had promised 
something I couldn't deliver to some very single-minded people 
with a propensity for shooting, rather than having coffee and 
biscuits and sympathizing with the bad card life dealt you. 

The reason I couldn't deliver was I couldn't do the Job. And I 
couldn't do the Job without John, because John, the flamboyant 
blowtorch virtuoso with an unmatched record of ninety-two safes, 
safe-rooms, and bank vaults, an average time of three point three 
minutes, clean as a germ-obsessed placebo-munching single old 
lady right before kidney stone surgery and a 
no-smoking-on-the-job policy that kept my cigarette budget 
intact, had gone and killed himself in his brother's-in-law chop 
shop.

I stopped and asked myself at that point whether that unfortunate 
death, at such a bad time, right before what would now prove to 
be the last gig in my career was a sign from God to stop doing 
what I did best: stealing. In a rare know-thyself moment I 
reminded myself I wasn't half as good at it as some Wall Street 
people, politicians and the let-me-lend-you-your-own-money 
cutthroats that roamed the street unabashed.

Logic would then imply that if there was going to be any smiting 
and all that holier-than-thou business, any God with a sense of 
perspective, morality and justice wouldn't start dishing it out 
on my end. And in any case, I decided that if God really had 
something to tell me, he'd better make a really really good point 
with lots of compelling arguments, like saving my ass pronto. Or 
at least point me to a direction, show me the road to salvation 
that preferably led somewhere warm and sandy in the Pacific, 
along with a couple of Cayman bank accounts, some instantly 
gratifying plastic surgery and twelve hundred different driving 
licenses. I'd have thought about asking for another favor but 
they said that size didn't matter, bank accounts' 
notwithstanding.

Realising how God and reality rarely intertwined, I felt some 
kind of emotional pressure the likes of which I hadn't 
experienced since high-school and all the awkward parties. A 
stress relief mechanism kicked in someplace inside me and I 
sighed deeply before shouting out an expletive, something 
eloquent like 'Fuck!'.

That made some heads in the diner turn and raised the attached 
eyebrows apprehensively. It also gained me the attention of the 
establishment's chef- du-cuisine, a six-foot-three, two-hundred 
and fifty pound red-haired, bush-bearded wild-eyed man-like 
Alabama creature with a meat cleaver, a stained apron and a 
murderous gleam in his eye. He pointed that cleaver towards my 
direction and said with a slight snarl “Now yo' better watch that 
god-damn filthy mouth a yours, 'less you got dental, son.”

I think I nodded faintly and muttered “I'm sorry” in an 
absent-minded fashion before I put ten bucks on the table, got up 
and left. He probably felt that'd given me a good old fashioned 
run-down, but I was simply in a hurry.

I looked at my watch, one of the few items I had actually bought 
with honest money from a winning lottery ticket back when I kept 
saying to myself that heists were 'a temporary thing'. It was 
half past ten in the morning, and I had more or less twenty two 
and a half hours to live. As I looked at the bland green and 
brown Southern scenery, I noticed a couple of dogs humping 
without a care in the world, oblivious to pretty much everything 
else.

I was about to think something profound about nature and the will 
of life to survive and continue, when I noticed they both had “
stuff” dangling underneath. Even nature had a way of giving me 
the finger. I looked up into the blighting sun and all I could 
see was white and red dots for the next ten minutes. I'd left my 
glasses inside the diner. I said to myself, fuck that, I don't 
need sunglasses. I'm Bobby. I'm going to do what it takes, and I 
sure as hell can do it without sunglasses. In retrospect, that 
might have been a mistake cause those sunglasses had a history of 
their own, but it was time for action not remembrance. So I acted 
on impulse, without pausing to ruminate on the outcome of my 
actions, and especially what those actions might incur 
precipitate in relation to my person. 

Now, thinking back to that particular moment in time, the moment 
I decided to act was the moment I kept thinking to myself 'Bobby, 
that doesn't mean shit. John blowing up doesn't mean shit. You 
can still do this. You can still get rich, or die trying', that 
must have been the moment that would probably get the most votes 
in the 'Most Regrettable Moment in Your Entire Life' category. It 
would also get lots of points in the 'Shit I Wish I Hadn't Done' 
category, but the real winner in that one was calling up Eileen. 
I'd done mistakes before, but it always amazed me how impossibly 
fast I regretted calling Eileen on that particular day. I 
panicked.

I rang her three times before she picked up. When she did, it 
sounded like she hadn't talked to a real person in about three 
years:

“Mmbby? Mmmby Baahow? My Bobby Bear?”

I took little notice that she had been stuffing herself, probably 
a bad case of munchies.

I said “Yeah, Eileen,” managing to keep my tone of voice even, 
normal. It really felt like biting the bullet when I said “it's 
me, Papa-Bear,”. It also made me cringe as the connotations that 
old term of endearment implied flashed across my mind's eye. 
Jesus Christ, not Eileen. What was I doing? Was there no other 
way? Was this a possible way out or was it just a faster way 
under?

“Awwww, Papa-Bear.. Is, this really you Bobby? I miss you so 
much, you know.”

She sounded quite sincere but then again crazy people always do 
since they do believe you are actually an ursine humanoid, 
complete with fur, claws, a fluffy tummy, and an unhealthy hunger 
for honey and Taco Bell.

“Right, Eileen. That's, me.. Yeah. Papa-waka-bear. Huh..”

The words seemed to be drip-fed to my brain from some sort of 
mental black hole that spewed forth nothing that made sense. 
Fortunately that strongly resonated with Eileen's sense of 
reality:

“Oh, Papa-waka-bear, so strong and furry and manly..With lots and 
lots of furry shouldery hair for me to rub and that sweet 
tummy..Can I see you Bobby? Just this once, I won't be a bother, 
really. We don't need to go boat-pedaling or skating. Just see 
you, maybe let me rub your tummy. And have sex?”

I closed my eyes and recalled a picture from the past: myself 
laden with honey from tip to toe, tied to a bed with a Winnie the 
Pooh plushie wearing a strap-on dildo and Eileen shouting “Rawr! 
I'm your honeycomb slice, Papa-Bear!”. I decided then and there 
that I'd have to appeal to whatever core of sanity remained in 
her mind, or else I could just go drown myself in a really 
shallow body of water, like, say, a gutter.

“Listen, Eileen.. We can't.. I can't do all that, okay? I wish I 
could, but..”

That was a lie. That was a lie. That was a lie. I was lying to 
her, but that's okay cause she's crazy.

“Ohh. Why can't you Papa-Bear? We could have so much fun 
together! We could ride the tram around the city, and I could 
feed you cotton candy and berries. Like last time, don't you 
remember? Didn't you have fun? Please, Bobby. Can't I see you 
once more? Why did you call me then? Do you really want to hurt 
me, Bobby?”

Her voice reminded me uncannily of Boy George and that made my 
eyes hurt just by thinking about it. I felt my stomach knot at 
the thought of all the things I would have to endure to get on 
her good side. Or it might have been the coffee-like dirt-brew. I 
took a deep breath before uttering the words as if they were my 
last:

“I need to see you Eileen.”

“Oh, Bobby! You really can't tell how happy that makes me! I feel 
like leaping outside the window and flying to your arms, 
Papa-Bear!”

Oh God, shit no. She was crazy enough to actually pop out the 
window and crack her head open on the street below.

“No, no, Eileen! Don't do that honey, no. You gotta wait a couple 
of hours, I'll drop by your place. Okay?”

“But whoosy-cooshy-huggy of mine, I'll be fly to you in a jippy 
if you just say the word!”

“No, no! Just sit tight, will ya? I'll bring you chocolate chip 
cookies, your favorite. Just don't go anywhere. And Eileen, take 
your meds, please. You're still on meds, right?”

“Oh, you mean those horrible pills? They were so bitter and bad 
for me, unlike you Bobby. No, no, daddy paid off the bad men in 
white and now I'm home again. Free as a bird. Your little 
nightingale.”

That was probably wrong. No meds, rampant insanity mixed with 
nymphomaniac tendencies. And ursine fantasies. For a moment I 
thought it'd be a better bet to just reason with Falconi, but the 
fact that the last guy who tried that ended up as hand-made soap 
bars with Falconi's signature on it left me with little doubt 
about where my chances lay. I'd stick with the looney. At least 
she seemed to still have this thing for me.

“Okaaay, Eileen. Now, see Papa-Bear's in trouble and I need your 
help. So, make sure you can get a hold of daddy and tell him that 
you might need that jet of his for a trip. And some pocket money 
too. Tell him you're going shopping in New York, okay?”

I listened myself saying all that and momentarily asked myself 
'Are you a bad person for doing this, Bobby?', and then the 
answer came guilt-free 'No, Falconi is a bad person because he 
wants you dead for something you didn't even do'. It also helped 
to think of myself as Papa-Bear and not Bobby Barhoe.

“We're going shopping? Oh, Papa-Bear I always knew you were so 
much fun!”

“Yeah, I'm a god-damn roaming circus. So, see you in a couple of 
hours.”

“Don't take long, Papa-Bear! I want to squash you in my arms and 
feel your tummy and tusle your hair and then su-”

Damn you to hell John Staikos, this was all your fault.

“Yeah, yeah, okay Eileen. Anything you like. Bye!”

“Wait, wait!”

“What?”

“Whoopsy-kissy?”

I hesitated just for the tiniest moment and I could almost 
picture the sad, watery eyes and then the coming onslaught of 
cries, curses and finely sharpened blades being hurled against 
me, so I made something like a smooching sound. It might have 
sounded like a fart, I'm not sure, but she sounded positively 
satisfied:

“I love you Papa-Bear! I can't wait to snuggly-wuggly you in my 
arms and tie you down and -”

“Goodbye!”

I hang up in the nick of time. The ordeal was over for now, but 
doubts started assaulting me like journalists outside a rehab 
facility for famous people. Was this my only option? Would she 
come through? What if she had been waiting for that call, that 
one call that I might have given her in such a time of 
extenuating circumstances and dire need, just so I could come 
running to her for help and then dice me up because I shot the 
best-man on our wedding day and ran off in her father's Porsche?

I had to keep reminding myself I wasn't the bad person here, even 
as I strode back into my piece-of-shit Taurus. These were 
desperate times, and they obviously required insanely desperate 
measures.

I got back on route 72, heading for Memphis. While the radio 
waves reeked with country, bluegrass and heart-felt messages to 
the parishioners to pledge their support to the Church of Latter 
Day Saints With Semi-Automatic Rifles, I casually gazed outside 
the window and couldn't help notice that this countryside was so 
flat and uninteresting that if there was some kind of hell 
waiting for everyone, this would be it. I was about to start a 
self-gratifying rant, using phrases like “Good job right there, 
Bobby”, “Sure I can vouch for that sleezeball Mr. Falconi”, “Heck 
no, nothing can go wrong, we're all pros here. Right?” when a big 
brown legged thing just popped right in front of the Taurus. I 
applied pressure to the braking pedal and then the laws of 
physics worked their magic.

Now, despite appearances I'm a fairly well-educated man and I 
know that Taurus is just a fancy word for bull. I also know that 
for a car to decelerate from eighty miles-per-hour to zero, it 
takes a couple hundred feet, and that's because no-one in his 
right mind would design a car that could turn its occupants into 
mush or tarmac jelly (depending on the seat belt arrangement) 
when they wanted it to stop.

That being said, I wasn't really suprised when the Taurus hit 
that horse. I wasn't really surprised when the airbag tried to 
rob me of what looked like my early dying breath. Surprise wasn't 
achieved even when the car swiveled and landed sideways in a 
gravely ditch. It wasn't the fact that I was still in one piece, 
nor the fact that the horse - had it been given the oral faculty 
post-mortem - could not say the same for itself.

It was the shaman.

There I was, still trying to decide whether or not I was still 
alive and with my brain between my ears, when I saw through the 
hazy smoke and vapor of the smashed front of the car the figure 
of a lone man, looking directly at me with a deeply sombre gaze, 
as if I had just killed his horse. He was dressed in a brown 
leather jacket, criss-crossed leather vest, and soft tan shoes. 
I'd have wagered he was some kind of a disco enthusiast with a 
slightly bent sexual orientation, if it wasn't for the feathery 
hat and the somewhat austere, manly jaw line. He was the spitting 
image of some Cherokee. Or Navajo. I didn't know, I just knew 
they name cars after these kinds of people.

He spoke with a peculiar voice that had the impossible qualities 
of gravel and running water at the same time:

“Are you hurt?”

I would normally have taken the time to think about faking some 
injury so I could sue the guy for damages. But under the 
circumstances, namely that if everything went according to plan I 
had less than a day to live combined with that this guy's entire 
estate most probably consisted of a dead horse, a tipi and his 
grandparents in a convenient ash form, I instinctively opted for 
the truth. Everything felt connected to the proper slots and I 
literaly (and sadly, figuratively as well) saw no great blinding 
light at the end of a tunnel.

He came closer, shook open my jammed door and helped me get out 
of the car. He striked me as neither too old and neither too 
young, kind of exactly like Ronn Moss.

“Yeah, I think I'm okay. Where did you, ahm.. I mean, the horse 
just popped out of nowhere, and..”

“I know, Bobby.”

His words had a strangely calming effect. They oozed serenity. It 
was like listening to the voice of a loving grandfather, and by 
loving I don't mean pedophile. But then it hit me:

How did he know my name?

What did he mean by saying 'I know'? What did he know? I looked 
blankly at him, wondering briefly if I there was a universal 
balance being observed right at that moment. My impending doom, 
and a horse dying in front of Taurus. Could it be that somehow 
the cosmic forces of life contrived to tell me something? Had 
some sort of karmic exchange taken place right in front of my 
eyes? A horse's life, for my own? An offering, a sacrifice to the 
powers beyond reach? Was he a holy man? Some sort of shaman? An 
emissary of fate? Was this the break I so desperately needed?

How did he know my name?

His next words jarred me out of my shocked reverie:

“The plates.”

“Excuse me?”

“Says here on the car plates, 'BOBBY B'. Isn't that your name?”

I felt a bit silly, standing right beside him on the side of the 
road, bending over looking at what must have been horse gut 
sprayed all over what at some point, had been my Taurus' 
radiator.

“I'm sorry, I must've been thinking out loud. Well, yeah. Bobby 
Barhoe.”

He looked at me sideways, somehow failing to mask his feelings 
disappointment. I couldn't know if it was my name or the pool of 
blood oozing from the horse.

“What kind of a name is that, Barhoe? Seriously?”

It was an odd think to ask, but then again I'd just run over his 
horse so I felt I should indulge the man. It might have also been 
an unconscious, fool-hardy effort to steer the discussion away 
from the dead horse.

“I've never really given it much thought. It's just a name, 
really. I actually think it sounds sturdy, homely. Like, say -”

“Burroughs?”

He furrowed his left eyebrow in a grimace that would have 
normally required a monocle for full effect. I took a closer look 
at the steaming pile of heap that used to be the engine block. 
From a long experience in messiness, I could tell changing the 
tires wouldn't work.

“Yeah, kinda like that one. Or Thibodeau. Sounds dependable, 
right?”

“That doesn't sound sturdy, homely or dependable. That sounds 
like someone fell down the stairs.”

“I think it's a good name. And so is Barhoe, don't mind me 
saying,” I said and sat in front of the dead horse, arms crossed, 
trying to sound convivial. I must've come across like a prissy 
twat. 

“Well I really don't think so, Bobby,” he said and he scratched 
his head under the feather hat while grinning profusely as if he 
was enjoying all this immensely.

“I don't want to sound like a total jerk since I seem to have 
inadvertently fatally injured your horse over there, but you know 
who I am, while I don't.”

I think I pointed lamely to the dead horse and sounded like a 
total jerk.

“I'm The Sad Son of A Bitch Whose Horse Runneth Over.”

“Wow. Really? That's kind of tragic, isn't it? Talk about karma, 
huh?”

“Not really. Just because I'm Alabama it doesn't mean.. The 
name's Steve Johnson.”

After all the pointless discussion about names it felt like I'd 
been cheated.

“What kind of an indian is named like that? I mean, seriously?” 

“Now look here, I'm tired of this shit. Just because I'm Alabama 
it doesn't mean our people live like a hundred and fifty years 
ago. I went to college. I got into a greek society, got drunk and 
wedgied and did all that frat-house shit just because I lacked 
the necessary maturity and personality like every other 
post-adolescent American male. And on an athletic scholarship, 
mind you.”

His name, even though it was as common as the cold, sounded oddly 
familiar.

“Did you by any chance play football at Kentucky?”

“Track and field, Alabama State. Do I look like I could play 
football?”

He was about five-foot-ten, a bit on the light side, no more than 
a hundred and thirty, a hundred and forty pounds. In pygmy 
football he might've been a world champion, but I don't think 
there is such a thing as pygmy football. Nor should there be.

“Not really, no.”

His back was turned to me, looking at a far part of the sky 
brimming with timidly approaching dark clouds when he abruptly 
spun around and said with a beaming smile:

“That doesn't mean I'm not a shaman though.”

“It doesn't?”

I suddenly felt the conversation was starting to get a bit 
light-headed, when he explained:

“Shamanistic rituals form the basis of a hard core of belief in 
existentialist individualism, a wave breaker of people against 
the tsunami of pragmatistic atavism of today's profit-driven 
societies. Part of the SSSD manifesto stands for -”

I couldn't resist interrupting the bullshit storm so I told him 
with a straight face:

“I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with that SS thing. Is it, like, 
Hitler's SS?”

“What? No, no. It's the Societe des Shamans et Sorciers-Docteurs.”

The man seemed impervious to sarcasm.

“That's german, isn't it?”

“No, it's french for the Society of Shamans and Witch Doctors.”

Even though he was probably right, I was pretty convinced that 
French and German were one and the same.

“So you got your own thing going? Shamanizing? Actually, is that 
a real word?”

“Well, the internet's helped a lot, you know? Coming together, 
feeling the buzz, spreading the word, but what's -”

One of the few things that I really feared apart from dying 
gruesomely in the hands (holding sharp instruments of death 
implied) of Falconi's goons was being surrounded by miracle 
workers, teleevangelists and all sorts of religious yahoo's that 
sounded just as coherent and sincere as that church of something 
where rich, famous, short actors used to go to find out the 
really real truth. 

“Listen, I'm in a bit of a hurry. I really have to get to 
Memphis, like really soon. Actually I should have been almost 
half way there by now. So, say you wouldn't be on your way to 
Memphis would you? I'd be very grateful -”

“Dead!” he suddenly exclaimed raising his hands as if a switch 
had been turned on.

“What?”

“My horse is dead.”

“I kind of noticed that. It hasn't moved since it spewed its - .. 
What I meant to say was, could you drop me off with your car?”

“I don't have a car.”

“Your bike?”

“No bike either,” he said, and shook his head.

“Your other horse?” I asked in vain.

“Awatame was my friend and only steed for many years. May he rest 
in peace,” he said with a genuine sadness that quickly passed 
over his features as well.

“The horse had a name?”

I felt that was the wrong thing to say but he didn't seem to be 
offended. He rather asked me with a slim smile:

“Have you heard of a horse with no name?”

His question had a curious ring to it but I couldn't quite 
remember why.

“Look, we could on like this for hours but not today. In about 
twenty hours or so, give or take, some really pissed off people 
with very little in the way of ethics considerations concerning 
the sanctity of human life are going to come looking for me, and 
my instincts tell me to run and hide, and they're usually right. 
You might think I'm pulling your leg here, having killed your 
horse and so on but -”

He took off his feathery hat and straightened his hair. He said 
with unnerving casualness:

“Yeah, you vouched for Dempsey, and when he vanished into thin 
air with thirty million in Falconi's bonds, he gave you another 
shot - the Veteran's Fund job. Problem is, John Staikos blew up 
along with his brother's-in-law chop shop, and took the job with 
him down the sinkhole. You're not a gun-crazed ape so you can't 
deal with Falconi going in, guns blazing. You are the careful, 
studied planner who has taken everything into consideration and 
has mathematically proven you need John to pull off the job. You 
can't just pretent to do the job and get caught because then 
Falconi would take care of you in the jail anyhow. You can't find 
a replacement - no less in such a short notice - because John was 
the only guy who has cut open a vault like that, ever. You're 
thinking about flying away with Eileen's help. Maybe hide 
somewhere in Mexico, or in the Andes. Or maybe someplace real 
deep in the Amazon.”

I watched in stunned silence as flies the size of hummingbirds 
buzzed around the horse. I managed to ask him with what I 
believed was a valid question under the circumstances:

“How the fuck do you know all that?”

“I told you, I'm a shaman. I resonate with mother Earth. I 
communicate with the spirits. I conversed with John, actually. We 
were drinking buddies back in the college days. He asked me to 
help a friend in need. So here I am.”

Instincts took over so I couldn't believe a god-damn thing he was 
saying so I reverted to what should be the most logical 
explanation according to my experience as a fund displacement 
engineer:

“You're a Fed, right? This is some kind of elaborate setup. 
You've been monitoring me for some time know and you want me to 
confess, put Falconi behind bars, put me in witness protection. I 
can see the snipers. Let me tell you, not a chance. Falconi will 
find a way to kill me. So I'm not buying. Oh, and I don't know 
who he is. Or what's his name. I'm talking man. You got nothing 
on me.”

I think I had said pretty much everything I wasn't supposed to 
say but once more that wouldn't prove to be much of a problem.

“John said you'd be hard to convince. What if I can answer only 
something the two of you would ever know?”

“You could have gotten to him, tortured him for every little 
detail. Heck, you might've blown him up just to put a wrench in 
Falconi's job.”

“I guess you're also thinking we didn't land on the moon.”

“Of course we landed on the moon, in '53. The landings in '69 
were just a cover-up to discredit all the -”

“I get the picture. What if he told you himself? Would that be 
enough to make you believe?”

“So it's a ruse? He's alive, right? Working with the Feds? Are we 
still on, Steve? Or should I call you Agent Johnson?”

I smiled smugly and thought I had him nailed right over there. 
Things looked like they could still turn out OK in the end. Maybe 
we'd have a cold one at a strip joint, and laugh about it 
surrounded by well-endowed professional dancers with allergies to 
any sort of garment. I couldn't be farther away from reality.

“I'm afraid he's pretty dead. Bought the proverbial farm. But, 
you're still on.”

“We are? How?” 

“Like this,” Steve said and closed his eyes before he started 
dancing. At first thought it was part of keeping in par with the 
whole indian routine, doing the rain dance and shrieking like a 
baboon. But the way he tip-toed, spun and jumped into the air, 
then gracefully landing and doing a pirouette reminded me of soft 
ballerina's shoes, stockings and New York Times articles on 
homophobia.

Instinctively I took a couple of steps back watching with 
increasing horror as Steven pranced around the dead horse with 
arms extended like paws, and suddenly all I could think of was 
Michael Jackson and zombies. I was about to break into a hopeless 
run thinking that nutjobs usually can't afford snipers until 
they're elected in office and then I saw John as a bluish, thin 
apparition seeping out from the horse.

He was wearing goggles over his eyes and had a blow torch in 
hand; he was looking rather pale which under any circumstances 
seemed only natural. I was about to yell 'Hologram!' when he 
uncannily zipped right next to me and said:

“Bobby, my man. The Taurus got totalled, huh? Bummer.”

“John?”

“Where you expecting someone else?”

Needless to say I did the first thing that came to my 
ape-descendant brain: I tried to poke him with a finger but it 
went right through. Then I tried not to faint, and I remember I 
heard Steve say:

“Tell him it's all true.”

Then John, or his apparition, or his astral projection or 
whatever it was I was technically talking to said:

“It's all true.”

“See? I told you,” said Steve and smiled encouragingly while my 
eyes darted back and forth trying to find some point of reference 
that would explain all this and keep my brain from melting. That 
mostly failed. My lips moved but nothing came out of my mouth 
except perhaps some drool.

“Huh?”

John the Ghost, or John the Apparition, or the Spirit Formerly 
known as John said:

“Don't try to understand, at least not now. Steve's a buddy, so 
do what he says and he'll fix us both up. I might actually help 
you live through it and make it in time for the game on Saturday 
as well.”

Steve popped a question with a frown:

“Buffalo?”

“Nah, Nicks. So, Bobby. I'm counting on you. I gotta run now, 
some attendant's busting my balls, says I parked on a handicapped 
spot.”

And just like that, before I could breathe in and out, he 
vanished. I managed to make sounds like words again. Almost.

“Uh. Um. That was John?”

Steve nodded 'yes' with his head.

“And he wasn't fucking with me? You aren't fucking with me?”

He shook his head in a well-known fashion that in almost any 
known human culture meant 'no'. I took a few deep breaths while 
my mind tried to empty itself. It took a while longer than usual 
this time around.

“So what did he mean? Why is he counting on me? Can someone else 
do the job for him? Oh, I get it! Can he possess Falconi, make 
his head spin around and break his neck? Or do some of that weird 
ghost shit, scare him shitless and make him jump off the 41st 
floor? Was that a ghost? Or a ghoul? I can't tell the difference, 
you should know that stuff. I mean you can summon the dead, 
right?”

I think there was a strange gleam of shocked terror when I said 
that, so Steve sounded a bit apprehensive:

“You're weird. He's neither. He's in an incorporeal form. His 
spirit still roams the Earth freely and can be called upon, but 
his soul is trapped in the Parking Lot of Eternity. If he doesn't 
find the exit soon, he'll be trapped there, forever searching the 
ticket for his green Honda Accord.”

“That piece of crap? Yeah, okay, I just talked with a dead guy. 
So, how can he help me? Can he do the job in that condition?”

“He can't, he's dead. We have to bring him back. Well, you 
actually.”

“Bring him back from the dead? As in, raise him from the dead? As 
in, resurrection?”

“Technically, it's not exactly like that. There have been 
precedents. Lazarus, Jesus. Disney, Elvis. Hitler. It's more 
like, re-rolling the last dice.”

“What, like in a game?”

“Isn't life but just a game?”

“What's with all the philosophical questions today? The 
accident.. The dead horse.. I was badly injured. I'm in a coma. 
And I'm seeing these visions, and you're like a spiritual guide 
but in reality, you're just a figment of my imagination, a 
creation of my subconscious mind which is trying to stay alive 
and-”

And then he suddenly punched me really hard in the face. It made 
my jaw go numb for like a minute or two, and then I knew that for 
all intends and purposes this was probably real enough.

“Did you imagine that? I don't think so. And to get down to 
business, John really wants that second chance. I mean who 
wouldn't? Except maybe people who owed lots of money. But to do 
that, someone has to vouch for him. If he fails to get that 
second chance, he and that someone get to serve at the Parking 
Lot of Eternity as attendants for, well, all Eternity.”

“Is that like a valet service for the dead then?”

“You could say so, yes.”

“So how are you going to do it?”

“Do what?”

“You know, save John. Give him his second chance, save my life, 
all that.”

“I'm not doing anything like that. You are going to.”

“I am? Maybe you are imagining this?”

He looked at me in a funny way that expertly conveyed the message 
'do you want another punch in the face?'.

“Yeah, I think you're not imagining it any more than I am. Come 
to think of it, I'm done for either way, right?”

“The smart money's on that.”

Falconi would scour the Earth to get me. I'd have a considerably 
shortened expiration date and the overall idea of growing old and 
senile around scantily clad teens that didn't speak a word of 
English would be thrown out of the window.

I was scared. I was panicked. The instinct of fleeing in the face 
of insurmountable odds and grave danger overcame my cold, 
calculating sense of reason, even though I was starting to 
reconsider the wording 'reason'. If all that were true, if indeed 
there was the slightest hope of John coming back from the dead, 
and doing the job, what did I have to lose apart from my sanity?

“Okay. I'll do it. What do I have to do?”

“Collect spirit shards.”

“What, like Zelda or something?”

Steve looked puzzled.

“What's Zelda? Some new age Zen crap? Because the spirits will be 
angry if-”

“No, it's a game on the Nintendo.”

“What's a Nintendo?”

“The Wii?”

“We what?”

“Forget about Zelda, she's can be a real bitch anyway. What kind 
of spirit shards are you talking about?”

“Real spirit shards, from willing souls. I need to perform a 
certain ritual for each and every soul that is willing to merge a 
part of it with yours.”

Instincts kicked in so I couldn't help asking:

“Will that hurt?”

“No, I don't think so.”

“You don't think so?”

“I don't. I haven't done it before.”

I should have known I'd hear that phrase at some point in the 
discussion.

“Oh, that's just classic. I mean, what is this, amateur shaman 
night ? You haven't done it before?”

“Have you talked with lots of dead people?”

“Not really, no. Just John back there.”

“Well, that's because it's pretty fucking rare. So are spirit 
shards. Souls are very fickle and rarely accept such a thing.”

“Right. And how are we going to pull that soul-catching off then?”

“I have something in mind. At least someplace we can start.”

“Whatever, I'm game as long I get to keep my head and my balls 
attached. Do you know how to do your stuff?”

“I'm qualified. I've taken classes.”

That sounded at least ridiculous. I'd seen stranger stuff just a 
couple of minutes earlier but I just spurted the words:

“You can't be serious. Does it involve dancing like a queer?”

“I am. And if you mean 'ballet', it does. We need to act quickly. 
And you need to get us some transportation. Hitchhiking a ride 
might do the trick.”

“Why me?”

“You're the white, respectable-looking guy.”

“I'm a god-damn thief. And I got some Latino blood in me, I'm not 
all 'whitey'. I have this thing for salsa and tortillas, someone 
in the family must've been an hombre.”

Steve looked at me with a vaguely mixed feeling somewhere between 
pity and disgust.

“I said respectable-looking. Don't blame me for your society's 
prejudice against native americans.”

“I thought it was your society as well. That you had integrated 
and so on.”

“That's just what we tell folks at job interviews. Now, remember 
I'm only doing this as a favor to John. I'm not sure we can be 
buddies yet, so remember that too.”

A slightly uneasy silence followed as we both looked onto the 
street, hunting for a passing ride. At some point I felt like I 
just had to ask:

“He owes you money, right?”

“Yeah. Two hundred bucks. Said he had some debt he needed to pay 
off fast.”

“That's funny, he owed me two hundred bucks.”

Steve looked at me wide-eyed and exclaimed:

“Well, dress me up like Custer and shoot me full of arrows. 
That's karma, come a lyin'.”

“Don't sing that, I hate Culture Club.”

“Don't sing what? You mean like a choir club?”

* * *

A pair of furry dice hang from the rear mirror. Instead of 
numbers from one to six though, each face sported an extremely 
detailed depiction of men engaged in activities of a sexual 
nature, with sheep nonetheless. Steve was looking at the dices 
with mystified awe, as if he was for the first time in his life, 
challenged to believe people could do such things.

The truck driver's name was Ivan Kerrilov, and when he spoke he 
never failed to make me think he had picked up english inside a 
fishing barrel, talking to tuna who couldn't read or talk but had 
learned it themselves using a chinese electrical appliance manual 
for textbook. Needless to say, it sounded like garbage.

“You are to each other? To get there?”

I tried to maintain a conversational tone without giving away the 
fact that I could not understand what the hell Ivan was saying, 
while Steve kept touching things that one could never know 
whether or not they had been inserted into orifices regularly as 
of late. So I tried to reply:

“We are who we are. Together. What does 'together' really mean, 
you know?”

With safety in mind first and without taking his eyes off the 
road, Ivan took his hand off the wheel and made two little 
figures with his fingers that first walked casually next to each 
other, and then one seemed to bend over only to get the index 
finger of the other hand repeatedly inserted into an imaginary 
cavity. At first I squinted at the little charade, trying to 
think what could be going on in Ivan's stranger-fiction-mind. And 
then I saw his leery smile and rhythmical movement of his pelvis 
I irreversibly knew he was asking whether or not me and Steve 
were a 'thing'. I answered as delicately as appearances and 
circumstances allowed:

“The fuck no! We're guys!”

A bump on the road slightly jerked all three of us. Ivan grinned 
widely seemingly to purposely reflect almost eighty percent of 
sunlight directly on to my face with his metal teeth. He 
constantly made me feel I was in a Bond parody film set with the 
same supporting cast, only slightly bent.

“So?” asked Steve without provocation and without a care, delving 
deep into the insides of the truck's dashboard and assroted 
interior extra, like the small cupboard in the back and the 
impossibly tiny WC. I had seen where this kind of talk could lead 
and I always regretted rising to the bait. I resolved not to be 
tempted, especially then, and especially in there.

“I'm not doing that. I'm not getting into a discussion about 
homo-sex with you.”

“Why not? Homo-sex? Who says that?” asked Steve while carefully 
studuying the fine finishing in the beautifully lacquered 
cupboard doors in the miniscule kitchen area. A smell like vodka 
permeated the air.

“Look, he's smiling already! This must be some kind of perverted 
sexual fantasy coming true, two straight men hitching a hike, 
arguing about gays and sex between gays and animals and straight 
men like us.”

A really big truck with a streamlined design overtook us on the 
left, blaring his horn all the way. At the end of the huge tank 
he was carrying, the driver had put up a neon sign that said 
'HONK IF YOU'RE HUNG LIKE AN ARMADILLO'. Before my brain had time 
to fully explore the possibilities that such a statement entailed 
and what it really meant (for instance, what is an armadillo hung 
like? is it hung like an anteater or other thing beginning with 
'a'?), I was reflexively covering up my ears because Ivan had 
just honked, laughing like an immigrant version of the 
Woodpecker. On the other hand I noticed Steve was browsing 
through the mini-bar, which invariably seemed to possess enough 
alchohol to fire up an amateur rocket. Most of the tiny bottles 
were empty and the rest of them was emptied around the driver's 
seat.

“Now see why we should just shut up till Memphis?”

“Ivan says talk. Good for pass time, therapy, hum, no? Like 
Op-Rah. Spring-er?”

“No thank you, we can have some quality time to talk later, mind 
you.”

I thought that comment had put an end to the discussion, but when 
Steve sat next to me holding a mini bottle of Stolichnaya, he 
asked something that was a very punch-worthy thing to say:

“Haven't you ever been fingered by a lady?”

Had I the capacity, I would've boiled most of the water in my 
body into steam, turning my eyes into jelly in the process. But 
as I recall I simply foamed a bit while trying to restrain myself 
from actually hurting Steve, the 
curiously-inclined-to-talk-shit-like-that shaman:

“What the fuck kind of a question is that? Are you asking about 
whether not I've ever had a finger inserted up my ass? What the 
fuck's wrong with you?”

“Hey, just making some idle conversation. It's not like I asked 
if you're sucking-”

“Now wait just a minute. That's just sick.”

“What? Why, women do it all the time!”

“Yeah, well, women do that all the time! Not guys!”

“Why not?”

“Because, women are supposed to suck and men to..”

“Blow?”

“Hell no!”

“So you think you're so much better than women? Is that why 
you're degrading them?”

“What kind of - I didn't say anything degrading, I just said -”

“That they suck. That they're not as good at you at-”

“What? Good at sucking cock? Is that what you're saying?”

I noticed Ivan gave me a very strange look that somehow implied 
sexual tension to arise would be more than welcome on his part. 
For someone who couldn't talk a word of proper english, he 
communicated quite clearly.

“You bet your sweet ass they're better at sucking cock than I am!”
 I said and Steve looked at me straight in the eye, paused for a 
moment and asked with a flat, serious voice, the voice of someone 
doing a census:

“You think my ass is sweet? As in, lovely-looking? Perhaps, even, 
hot?”

“Stop saying shit like that.”

“So you're just not as good at it as you'd like? Is that why you 
have this weird fascination and keep saying women ain't -”

“Not as good at.. The hell.. I do not.. Suck.. Cock! Period!”

I made it pretty certain then that the flustered red on my face 
was not war paint but blood past its boiling point. But Steve 
just had to try my limits on the subject:

“I knew you were weird, I just didn't know you hadn't come out of 
the closet yet.”

“Come out of the- what?” I asked and saw my fist involuntarily 
punching him in the face. A split second later Steve thought it 
was time for some kind of psychological evaluation.

“See now that's typical behavior of repressed sexuality. You have 
a problem opening up to society as a homosexual man, so you 
become defensive, try to look like the dominating male figure, 
while in fact you subconsciously hitched a hike with an 
outspokenly gay man - in a milk truck no less - and just a moment 
ago admitted you're worse at sucking cock than most women. And 
that's why you punched me, because in this soul-searching quest 
you are too confined by your own-”

I punched him again, and this time it had the desired effect. He 
stopped talking shit and looked at me through half-open wary 
eyes, probably mindful that some things, and especially things 
concerning Bobby Barhoe's manliness were better left unsaid for a 
good reason that involved jarred bones and bruises.

I was visibly seething with anger. My male pride had been hurt. I 
almost felt like a proud elk being stripped of its horns, an 
elephant without a trunk, or a stud without its junk. It also 
felt like Ivan was eyeing me creepily, and grinning incongruously 
to every mention of a word even remotely related to intercourse, 
like 'milk', 'butter', or 'hoe'. Before abject terror pulled at 
my instincts and made me leap outside a truck doing eighty, he 
turned and said to me with an approving tone, proudly waving a 
badly groomed finger in the air:

“You talk like man. Ivan like that. Sexy, like a man.”

I tried not to think of that as a compliment, or even a comment 
of any kind.

Steve looked slightly miffed, sitting somewhat uncomfortably, 
nursing his jaw. It looked like the last punch had left him a 
purple-coloured souvenir. It's only reasonable then that he 
must've unwillingly disconnected his mouth from his brain when he 
said:

“I hope you are not developing a thing for me, because I'd have 
you know I'm not into-”

I was about to punch him a third time in that exact same sweet 
bruised spot and if God was a proponent of applied justice, I 
would have broken his jaw with the added bonus that that would 
have probably made him shit up for the rest of the ordeal, when I 
felt something with the apparent magnitude and force of a giant 
metal claw tugging at my left shoulder. It was Ivan who said:

“Memphis. We here. Look.”

And I turned and saw the sign that said 'Memphis NEXT EXIT'. I 
saw the bleak unatrractive greenish scenery that reminded me of 
mosquitoes and moonshine, and I was instantly overcome with 
agony, because the dreaded moment had arrived. We were about to 
meet Eileen. Which reminded me then to finish what I had started, 
and punch Steve in the face. A moment, a grunt and an expletive 
later he was complaining:

“What the fuck was that for?”

“That's for starting this shard business with Eileen.”

“A close, intimate relationship. Female softness of heart. She's 
the best candidate.”

“You might want to meet her before having an educated opinion 
first.”

“I'm sure you're overreacting, just like with the whole homo 
thing.”

I only had to slightly give him the eye, and he fell silent 
again, looking the other way. He then said with conviction:

“I'm pretty sure saying she's crazy and denouncing your 
relationship is just another way of coping with the fact that 
you're a homo-”

I'm not a violent man per se, and it definitely says something 
for a person when he's so eager to punch people in the face and 
break their legs, but in Steve's case, I would bet he could get 
the Pope mad enough to beat him to death with a bible. Before 
there was time to choke him to death, Ivan effectively disarmed 
me with but a few words of very special meaning:

“So, who is going to pay Ivan by butt-sex now we here?”

I think my genitalia shrunk to microscopic levels instantly, and 
my anus clenched itself airtight. I looked at Steve in terror and 
he simply smiled back, impervious to what the words implied for 
my gender. Impossibly, trying to ignore the inevitable I smiled 
back as well and thought that staying alive had its good moments, 
and its rape moments. This looked like a rape moment. And the 
funny thing is all I could think of was Nirvana and Kodak.

* * *

Ivan waved his goodbyes as enthusiastically as a little russian 
kid who got vodka and tickets to a bear fight for Christmas. He 
was holding a small wad of cash in one hand, and his smile shone 
with the radiant intensity of the finest soviet dentistry had to 
offer, which is to say not very much unlike nickel.

“'Buy' butt-sex! Jesus, what a horror. I thought he'd rape me and 
you'd just sit by and watch!”

“Would you have enjoyed that? It's understandable to have a fear 
of penetration.”

“Steve. Seriously. I don't want to hear that kind of bullshit. 
For the last time, I'm not a homo.”

“Nobody is. Not the first time. You're just experimenting. I can 
grok that.”

By that time I had mastered my instincts and even though a proper 
response would have been a punch in the face and a kick in the 
nuts, I was content to sigh and get on with the job at hand which 
seemed a lot more likely to test my limits than hearing Steve's 
rants about me being gay. 

“Just.. Just ring the bell.”

Steve shrugged and rang the bell. We were standing in the front 
porch of Eileen's house, a three-story typical southern mansion 
that reeked of money. If I closed my eyes I could almost hear “
Ol' man river” and smell the corn. A moment or two passed. 
Nothing happened while we waited. I was looking at the old, thick 
wooden door idly. Steve rang the bell once more. Still, the buzz 
didn't come. So we exchanged a couple of knowing looks and I 
looked under the door mat while Steve picked up a couple of plant 
pots and looked underneath. Nothing. No key. Steve said:

“Maybe she popped out for a while.”

“'Crazy' Eileen Novorski does not just 'pop out' for a while. 
Crazy people, at least Eileen-crazy people do not 'pop out'.”

“Why?”

“Because she's agoraphobic, among many other things.”

Steve's face froze in a blank expression while he was trying to 
connect the dots. Failing miserably, he asked nonetheless:

“So she's on a wheelchair?”

“What? No, no. She's scared of crowds. I thought you went to 
college.”

“Business major. Minor in arts. Can barely spell my name, 
actually.”

“I see. Well, something must've happened to her.”

“Maybe she's taking a dump.”

The intercom buzzed right about then and I heard Eileen 
positively - and quite literally so - mad with excitement:

“Papa-Bear! Is that you suggah?”

“Yeah, honey-bunny, it's me. Will you open up now, please?”

“Always, my love! Always!”

The intercom spewed some static as she hang up. The door buzzed 
and I pushed it open. We got inside and a powerful smell 
assaulted me: the smell of a shitload of money. The large 
entrance hall was just as I remembered. Stately, sparkling clean, 
filled with incredibly expensive luxury items chosen solely 
because of their price tag. There was this wide staircase that 
led to the upper floors, all marble and carpet. Pretty standard 
stuff for a cotton mogul like Eileen's father.

Steve was taking in the scenery, seemingly rather anxious all of 
the sudden and threw me a look I could only think of as ver 
constipated:

“I'm having this weird feeling,” he said and started searching 
his pockets.

“You need to go to the bathroom?”

“No, no, that's not it. There's something about this place that 
just doesn't fit.”

“What do you mean? I know the tiles look all wrong but it's the 
tapestry that's a bit off”

“Not the decor. I actually think what it lacks in finesse, it 
makes up with a few warm personal touches here and there,” he 
said while putting on some kind of talisman that looked like a 
couple of badgers getting it on.

I couldn't help but crack a smile.

“Really? I actually did some decorating work myself here back in 
the day. I think it might look better if the panels -”

“Where is everyone? You said her father's filthy rich. Not a 
manservant, a helper, or a nurse. A cat litter box right by the 
entrance, but no cat or hairballs to be seen. See that small 
table? The vase on it had been moved, but there's the patina of 
stale water in it. No one has bothered to change the water. The 
ceiling? Take a closer look at that chandelier. Cobwebs. Spun by 
a genus of spider known as Zoropsis, mainly found in the 
Meditteranean. Not native.”

“I thought you were a business major, not a spider biologist.”

“Arachnologist. It's a hobby of mine. Never mind that, we're in 
danger. This house is tainted.”

His eyes had started to shine with a very unhealthy gleam.

“What the hell are you talking about? Listen, let's just talk to 
Eileen and get this over with fast. The clock's ticking, 
remember. Where the hell is she anyway?”

And that was when I caught Eileen with the corner of my eye, 
falling down on me from the floor above, wearing a free-fall 
jumpsuit, arms outstretched looking lying a flying squirrel on 
drugs, ready to clench me into her death-love-grip. I barely had 
time to freeze like an idiot at the inane sight of her, so I 
couldn't dodge her in time (which would have been an instinctive 
reaction, no harm intended really). She simply fell right on top 
of me and we both fell on the floor. I was pretty certain I heard 
something crack, and while I tried to breath again, I heard 
Steven's voice carrying the unmistakable markings of someone on a 
cocktail of psychedelic drugs:

“Ninja assasins, man! They're everywhere!”, he said and took a 
few steps backwards, his back always facing the wall.

“No, that's Eileen, Steve. Steve, this is Eileen. Eileen, this is 
Steve,” I said catching my breath and made the introductions as 
best as I could considerating I was being smothered in kisses, 
lying helplessly on my back.

“Papa-Bear! And uncle-bear, too! Do you remember, how we went 
sky-diving last time? I suited up, and jumped all the way down 
from the, just for you! Look, I even have a parachute!” she said 
and pulled the string, causing the parachute slot to pop open 
with a fizz before starting to slightly ooze out of its bag and 
on the floor, quite without reason.

“Well, good thing you opened it in time then, right?” I said 
trying to sound approving, even as I tried to squirm away from 
her. I took a look at Steve and it seemed like he was starting to 
develop some sort of real mental issue. He was hugging the wall, 
mumbling something inaudible and had the look of a wide-eyed deer 
frozen by a couple of approaching headlights. I managed to stand 
back up after a while, Eileen continuously expressing her 
endearment, handling me like a stuffed animal and calling me 
'booby-woompy', 'etch-a-sketchy' and 'orgasmatron two', among 
other things. Before I could find a way calm her down enough to 
try and tell her why we were there, Steve finally blew a fuse and 
lost his marbles as if Eileen's condition was as catchy as the 
Embola virus:

“It must burn! Quickly! There's very little time! They're coming!”

For a moment, I thought some real danger had him tripping balls, 
and peered outside a window. 

“Falconi's men?”

“No, the Ninjas!”

I was wrong. I sighed.

“Steve, seriously. Say, let's have a drink. Something stiff. 
Laced with sedatives?”

“There! Look!”

“What? Where?”

Steve pointed. I looked. He kept pointing, and I kept looking. I 
couldn't see jack shit. There was nothing there to see other than 
rich folk stuff.

“Steve, there's nothing there. I see nothing.”

“Of course! You can't see Ninjas! That defeats their whole 
purpose! They're invisible, didn't you know?”

I was about to punch him again just as a stop-gap measure, when I 
saw Eileen had quickly acclimatized herself to the added 
craziness: she was doing her best ninja impression, with a length 
of the parachute wrapped around her face as a mask, wielding a 
three-pronged candle holder like somesort of dagger, dancing 
around, blinking wildly and generally looking very much unlike a 
ninja.

I realised I now had two, instead of just one nutcases to handle, 
and they were helping each other turn me into one of them. I 
tried to fold Steve back into some kind reality that might not 
involve invisible ninja assasins. I grabbed him by the shoulders 
and unglued him from the well, trying to say something that made 
sense:

“Maybe you ate something bad on the road? That sandwich? Maybe 
you put some mushrooms in that one, for the taste I'm sure. Or 
maybe peyote? That's kind of the same ain't it? I'm not being 
judgmental, I'm sure you can handle your addiction.”

His face looked like splitting for just a moment. He then 
blurted:

“No chance! Peyote tastes like rabbit pee, that sandwich tasted 
like snake dung, I'd know the difference! Or is it the other way 
around?” he said and Eileen hove into view with an aerial kick 
that managed to overturn a small commode (that's rich-folk lingo 
for cabinets). It also cost me my meager grip on Steve who just 
snapped at exactly the wrong moment.

“They're here, man! We got to torch this place! Let me go man!” 
he said, kicked me in the nuts and ran away while I collapsed in 
agony, seeing bright spots of many vivid colours and what might 
have been the faint image of a nun wearing a bikini and shorts. 
As I lay down on a persian carpet feeling my balls' declare their 
independence, my gaze unwillingly locked out of focus at what 
must've been an original Trego, and had this had happened to 
someone else, I'd find the coincidence quite charming.

Eileen was all over me in the blink of an eye. Her eyes looked 
watery already and she shrieked right into my ear with the 
overtones of a caring nympho:

“Oh, Bobby! Bad uncle-bear kicked you in the naughty bits! I'll 
kiss it better, Papa-Bear!”

While it might've been a welcome change in pace, I had to gather 
my wits, so I motioned a definite no while I felt blood 
circulation slowly return to the aforementioned bits.

I still lay there panting though, unable to fathom how I'd put 
myself in a situation that involved a crazy woman, a recently 
acquainted bonafide shaman able to summon spirits in possession 
of a definitely disturbed mind. It really felt like a 
balls-to-the-wall moment. I felt Eileen do something really 
awkward to my hair and then I saw she was tasting it, an all too 
well-known dominating her features. I knew then I needed to get 
up, knock some sense into Steve, preferably force-feeding him 
some of Eileen's leftover meds that were bound to be found around 
the house. The developments though, outpaced me, when Steve came 
into view shouting:

“Don't just stand there! Grab the woman!”

He looked every bit as mad as a mad scientist of native american 
heritage would, complete with his feathery hat on and wildly 
unkempt hair. Eileen was still hunched right beside me, tracing 
the carpet with a finger, probably unable to understand why there 
were no puddles ripping outwards from the fluffy sea.

“Steve, for god's sake, will you calm down?”

“No time! I turned on the gas! I'll torch the fuckers, don't you 
worry. All it needs is a sparkle, and this nest of evil will be 
burned down with a cleansing fire!”

Once more in my life, I felt I was on the forefront of modern 
psychiatric analysis and treatment. What made things a little 
different, a bit more urgent and a lot more dangerous than what 
metnal illness professionals faced (more aptly, blabbermouths 
with a degree and a all-you-can-eat LSD buffet at work). I knew 
that gas was notoriously known for a tendency to make things 
explode in flames. So I just used, plain, simple, hard logic to 
try and put things under control before it was too late. I simply 
told Steve what I thought of the whole situation:

“Steve, you are one stupid fuck. There are no ninjas, you're just 
freaking out on 'shrooms.”

“I'm not freaking on 'shrooms, man. It's real, you just can't see 
them because you aren't attuned. They're really very devious. 
Don't let that pink suit fool you, man.”

I tried to picture such a pink, fiendishly devious ninja for a 
moment, but thankfully I failed. I tried to make Steve see thing 
my way:

“Okay, let's just pretend this place needed some cleansing, and 
you went and turned on the gas in the kitchen. But you didn't 
disconnect the safeties, did you?”

Steve held up a handful of nuts, bolts and valves that looked 
very out of place. I kept my cool and asked him without 
trembling, at least not visibly.

“What about that sparkle Steve? You'd have to light it up 
somehow, man. You wouldn't be that crazy, say lighting up a match 
now, would you?”

And then I heard Eileen's syrupy voice coming from the direction 
of the kitchen:

“Papa-bear? Why didn't you say your tummy was empty? I could've 
cooked you your favorite, honey apple-pie with salmon and turkey 
eggs! And you forgot to put some real food along with that 
tin-foil in the microwave oven, silly Bobby!” 

While I tried to make sense of that statement, Steve said the 
most sensible thing I had heard out of his mouth in quite some 
time:

“Just run!”

I had this awkward sensation tingling inside my gut. Time seemed 
to flow much more gently suddenly. And I think I started running 
like some kind of wild animal that sees the fires approaching, 
consuming everything, and flees. Only for some inexplicable 
reason, I wasn't fleeing. I wasn't running outside the house. I 
ran inside the kitchen, and saw Eileen happily glued in front of 
the microwave with the tin foil inside, waiting for the clock to 
reach zero. In the sparse few seconds that I envisaged I had yet 
to live, I grabbed her by the waist and carried her outside like 
a brat about to get a thorough beating.

I wasn't paying thorough attention but I believe she was laughing 
her heart out, flapping her outstretched arms like we were 
headshowing a very cheap production of The Valkyrie.

As I passed through the open door, I could see Steve running in 
front of me, and realised his athletic scholarship wasn't just 
some bullshit he'd made up. I saw the courtyard, and beyond that 
I could see the path leading to the road, and when I felt this 
giant hand push me up in the air with an urgency that belied its 
deadliness, I realised the bird's-eye view is highly overrated 
and quite unpleasant if one does not possess the ability to land 
safely.

A fraction of a second later my ears were ravaged by the sound of 
the explosion that had propelled me and Eileen into the air. I 
had just enough time to think that it was a really shitty thing 
to die about a day earlier than you were supposed to, right 
before my face connected with the dirt horribly and everything 
went pitch black with a terrible thud.

* * *

When I came to, I opened my eyes tentatively, half-expecting John 
the ghost to greet me with his car's key-chain in hand, and an 
endless array of parked SUVs blocking the view to my Taurus, 
forever and ever. Instead, I was cheerfully greeted by Steve who 
had conveniently propped me up against an apple tree which looked 
like it might have been as old as the one that led to the 
discovery of gravity (a non-trivial force which I could vividly 
remember having challenged with little success).

“So, how are you feeling?”

The list of possible answers was easily narrowed to just one:

“Blown away?”

“That seems normal, since you were in fact blown away. Still, 
you're in one piece.”

I instinctively went about finding out whether that was indeed 
the case, and when all the body math checked out I happily 
concurred that indeed I was wholesome. I actually felt great. I 
thought it must've been a miracle that I hadn't even broken a 
single bone. It was a most welcome turn of events, surviving a 
gas explosion intact. So much in fact that I felt compelled to 
ask without worry:

“Where's Eileen?”

And then I saw her lying flat on the ground, her hair curled up 
around her face, tangled like she had just washed her face. She 
looked insanely serene, and that pun was not intended. She really 
looked peaceful. Like in a deep sleep or.. The thought just 
flashed across my mind like it was being stamped with the words 
by a really fierce customs officer, and my mouth moved of its 
own:

“Is she dead?

And then I heard this really warm and sensuous voice coming out 
of nowhere with crystal clarity, as loud as a thought:

“Right here, Bobby.”

I pride myself in thinking that I have extensive experience with 
using my eyes to look at things. Nevertheless, I was unable to 
see Eileen's lips move, not even by hair's breadth.

“I'm in here with you, Bobby. Don't be scared,” I heard her voice 
in my mind and I knew she was telling the truth.

Steve was putting together some twigs and sticks on a small pile, 
when he said as if on cue:

“Yeah, it worked. There was this slight side-effect though. It'll 
wear off once we're done.”

What the words implied instantly made my brain sent powerful 
signals accross my body, urging me to go ballistic. Holding my 
head with one hand I could feel my pulse grow stronger and 
stronger, to the point where if someone pricked me with a needle 
I'd probably explode. I heard Eileen's voice sweet and calming, 
as if everything was right as pie:

“Don't worry, Bobby. It's only temporary. I won't be a bother, 
you'll see.”

Somewhere along my mind there was a battle being fought between 
the impartial, calculating, cold forces of the logical parts of 
my brain and the mushy, animal-based subconscious mind that 
always believed it knew better. Beaten time and again, just this 
once it had won over and its uproar was translated into words 
coming out of my mouth:

“Damned if I'll be, but I believe her.”

Steve looked up to me as if frogs were spewing forth from my 
mouth and he just blurted:

“I was not ogling your ass when you were unconscious; that's just 
something troubled spirits might say when outside their bodies, 
you know because they're confused, can't tell their ass from 
their elbow usually. I really wasn't; Cross my heart and hope to 
die. Indian scout's honor.”

“You weren't doing what?” I asked but I never really meant to 
know anything about what he might've been really doing, ever.

I could see the fire trucks and the sheriff's office had done 
their part, and had extinguished the fire. The mansion had turned 
into a very big piece of charcoal, and we were safely and quite 
pertinently almost half a mile away, idly sitting under a tree, 
looking as innocent as any picknickers. The mansion was pretty 
much far down the road, so there weren't really any bystanders or 
eye-witnessess, and that only meant it would merely be a matter 
of minutes until someone noticed us and thought about coming 
around and start asking questions. Steve was probably on the same 
train of thought when he said somewhat hesitantly:

“Shouldn't we be, leaving? I mean, I don't think you're exactly 
on good terms with the boys over there.”

“Even though I should just tie you up on that tree with a 
five-gallon of gas and a blowtorch and write 'I LOVE TO WATCH 
THEM BURN' on their forehead, I won't. And yeah, you could say I 
avoid law enforcers like the bubonic plague. Yeah, it's time we 
make ourselves scarce.”

“What about me?!” I said and knew it wasn't me saying that. I 
covered my mouth with one hand in shocked surprise, while the 
other one was on my waist adding to a very feminine body posture 
which must've looked very ridiculous and gay, perhaps much to the 
chagrin of Steve who paused and turned around looking at me like 
there was overwhelming evidence of something weird going on. He 
sighed and said:

“Eileen? While he was out, we had a talk. Don't do that, it's not 
polite.”

“You were going to just walk away!”

Steve was motioning slowly with his hands, as if that would calm 
her down. I was standing there very much like a statue, blinking 
erratically.

“No we just now decided we should leave. No reason to get upset. 
We're going to carry you to..”

He looked at me with a helpless expression. I focused on just one 
name and curiously enough I was able to say it as well:

“Mama Adele!”

“Mama Adele!” echoed Steve quite unconvincingly with a 
half-witted smile.

I suddenly could move again as if some invisible cords had just 
snapped. I flexed my muscles as if they had been brand new again, 
and then I dutifully proceeded to lift Eileen up and carry her on 
my shoulder. She was a lithe little thing and she wouldn't be a 
bother until we could get down to the road and maybe hail a cab. 
Steve looked a bit worried though, so I asked him:

“What's on your mind?”

“How are we going to walk around carrying her around like that?”

“Oh, that? Just pretend she's my wife to be.”

“And does that making it okay for her to be unconscious?”

“Sure it does. It's kind of a tradition around these parts. As 
the saying goes -”

A grin formed on my mouth and I cocked my head slightly sideways 
before I said in an exaggerated southern drawl:

“Knock'em down, bag'em up, knock'em up while sherriff's outta 
town.”

“Seriously?”

“Yup. Besides, I've done this before.”

“With whom?”

I sighed and tried to look as blant and blank as possible with 
little success when I said:

“Eileen.”

“Oh, I see. So there's quite some past between the two of you.”

“Yeah, you could say that. By the way, what was that shit inside 
the mansion? What the fuck where you tripping on?”

“Oh, that was just part of the ritual.”

I think I frowned really hard when I heard that, almost trying to 
connect one eyebrow with the other. I was inclined to ask Steve 
about his thoughts on the strategy of preemptive strikes in 
general, colloquially known as 'shoot first, ask questions 
later', and in this particular instance 'punch first, then punch 
again'. But somehow I felt it would be a very counterproductive 
thing to do, at least until this situation with Eileen had been 
resolved. I'm pretty sure my teeth made a grinding noise when I 
said:

“You did this on purpose?”

Steve cleared his throat and settled into a calm, even voice. It 
was what could have passed as the voice of a narrator in a boring 
documentary about the use of poultry in ballistic forensics. 
Speaking from experience though, it was just Steve, indirectly 
admitting he was a huge asshole:

“Part of the ritual involves letting the spirits run wild, and 
free. Best way to do that, is make you act like yourself, speak 
with the heart if you will. Normally, we would have spend weeks 
together in the wild, hunting, bonding, perhaps bathing naked in 
ice cold streams, with nothing but the cloudy sky for a roof and 
our knives for shelter. The light of the stars would have shone 
in our souls, and our spirits would mingle with the Father Wind, 
the changer of all things not set in stone. And you would learn 
to feel the currents of Mother Earth flow within you, all living 
things as one force, separate but not divided, unique but not 
alone. And your spirit would be ready then. But because we had to 
do this real quick, I improvised and nearly killed us all. It 
worked better than I expected.”

“You're an asshole, Steve.”

As we reached the side of the road, I saw a sign right across the 
other side advertising cheap food, strong coffee and liquor, and 
I quote: 'fit for pharmaceutical use'. I was genuinely surprised 
then to see Steve wet his lips with his tongue, and look at me 
with an expression that verged on what I believe mental health 
professionals (yeah, the overpaid quacks) call bipolar disorder. 
The left part of his face was contorted in a jarred grimace, the 
kind of mess that happens to your face when you realise you've 
put yourself into a situation that can only result in abject, 
petrifying horror or death-of-the-soul (kinda like visiting the 
in-laws or watching the eight o'clock news). 

The other half, his right half, shone with the intensity and 
brilliance of a miniscule sun, as if the skin was made from the 
same stuff as the stars (which - technically speaking - is of 
course true), the same kind of face that an alcoholic makes at 
the first whiff of Vix.

He started then to put his one foot in front of the other, when 
he stopped and looked at me once more.

“I'm.. I am, a bit thirsty. Parched, actually. Don't you think we 
deserve a drink? Just a refreshment.” he said with a fake hoary 
voice.

Even though I was carrying Eileen on one shoulder, I managed to 
kick him in the nuts right about when he was about to cross the 
street anyhow. I looked at him and saw the universally 
recognisable, painful expression of a man feeling a little 
smaller.

“That was for before. You can get a drink when I'm alive, the job 
is done, and Eileen is back where she belongs.”

And then I think my left slapped me in the face, probably because 
I ended that sentence in my mind with “back in her crazy ass” and 
Eileen was left handed.

“See? You need a drink too, you just won't admit it. Like the 
fact that you are actually attracted to members of the same -”

“You're getting us a ride to Mama Adele's, and if you try and 
finish that sentence the way I think you intended to, I'm gonna 
make sure you're reminded of that dead horse of yours.”

I think he tried to laugh while on his knees, trying to stand 
back up, still in pain. He asked:

“You're just pissed off, I get that. But you need me, and 
besides; you wouldn't do that kind of thing.”

“No, I'm just gonna make sure you experience some non-consensual 
animal sex first-hand.”

He blinked, vacantly staring me, not being able to connect the 
dots.

“'Gonna horse-rape you.”

“Okay..,” he said and started looking up and down the road, while 
I couldn't wipe the smile of my face because I wasn't sure it was 
me or Eileen who had actually said 'horse-rape'.

I was getting the impression that Eileen's spirit was somehow 
different, yet the same, from 'Crazy' Eileen. Just without the 
craziness. It somehow felt right, kinda made me feel a little bad 
too. But all in all, I felt quite optimistic even though I had 
less than twenty hours to live, the spirit of my ex-wife trapped 
in my body, and rested my hopes on a ghost and a shaman with a 
drinking problem. Who wouldn't think to themselves: “How on Earth 
could ever, things be any worse?” 

* * *

Mama Adele had laid out a really delicate tablecloth, the color 
of blinding white. A small feast had been laid out on the table, 
and the overpowering smell of freshly baked cornbread filled the 
small, homely kitchen. Steve was sitting opposite me, hesitant to 
start eating, constantly flicking his gaze between Mama Adele, 
me, and his plate. I was playing around with my fork, trying to 
appear as I was ready to start eating any moment now while in 
fact I was classifying the potatos on my plate according to size, 
shape, and complexion (an old habit I inherited while doing time 
in prison - it really helped with trying to not think about the 
showers).

Eileen's body was upstairs, comfortably lying in bed. Even though 
I could use a bit of a nap myself at that point, there was very 
little precious time to waste, and Mama Adele did not help things 
by insisting that we sat down and had supper. When she saw Eileen 
was out cold it seemed as if someone had pulled away the world 
under her feet. We told her half of the truth: some kind of 
trouble, the mansion burned to the ground, Eileen knocked 
unconscious, safe and sound but in need of rest.

She'd known the line of business I was in and that I've had some 
shady dealings in the past, and that her father wasn't exactly a 
virgin in the domain of law-breaking, so she knew that whatever 
it was he had gotten her into, a hospital would be a bad idea.

God bless her soul, she grudgingly took her in, on two conditions 
nevertheless: one, that we'd sit down, eat supper, have some 
coffee, a nice long talk and perhaps a couple of beatings. Two, 
if Eileen didn't wake up soon, she'd put a curse on me so vile, 
that I'd wish I'd never been conceived, much less born, and so 
evil, that'd make the devil and all his minions look like pussies 
(these were, to my recollection, her exact words).

She had the relevant experience in the ju-ju crafts and all sorts 
of dead animal parts, as well as all the spunk and the ferocity 
of a really old black lady that had raised Eileen like she had 
been her own. Her dry wrinkled face nevertheless sported piercing 
cougar-like eyes, and if looks could kill, hers would have been a 
weapon of mass destruction. I noticed she was eyeing me with just 
that kind of a look, and while Eileen inside me urged me once 
more to tell her the truth, before I could open my mouth and 
speak a single word, she motioned me to stay silent, waving a 
bony arthritis-swollen finger and saying:

“Robert Eugene Barhoe, you've got lots of explaining to do, young 
man.”

I was about to point out that I was only thirty-three and 
consequently, according to national averages, not even 
middle-aged yet, but my cautious instincts got the better of me, 
and I simply braced myself for the beating which was probably 
where this would soon end.

“First of all, who is this indian? I don't like him one bit. I 
think he's a queer. Just wait and see.”

Steve shot me a look of surprise, like a rabbit popping up from 
his hiding place only to find out the hunting season is still on. 
He opened his mouth to speak, but Mama Adele still had the 
advantage and it didn't look like she was going to give it up 
anytime soon. She put up one hand with a warning finger that made 
us pause and watch as she unbuttoned her blouse with the other 
hand, slowly and decisively.

Normally the sight of a - probably senile - old woman undressing 
would have been met with urges and pleas to just stop, but this 
was Mama Adele and I dared not. Steve on the other hand was 
trying to politely look away, without appearing positively 
horrified at the thought of seeing any sort of tits that had lost 
any meaningful function since before the moon landing. 

There was no other choice but to look away. Somethings are better 
left unseen, and this here was a case of things that cannot be 
unseen. It was primal instinct that made us flinch and shy away 
from her bare breasts.

A frying pan connected with my head. Mama Adele then said:

“That was because you're a son of a bitch. And him?” she said 
pointing an accusing finger at Steve, her breasts juggling and 
bobbing like an flag made of jello.

“He's definitely queer. You'd never dare look at my breasts and 
I'd try and kill you for it, but any real, hot-blooded man, 
couldn't help taking a peep at Mama Adele's tits,” she said and 
sat upright in her chair, smiling with all the pride a former 
professional, well sought-after milkmaid could command.

Eileen kept shouting a singular, persistent 'no' inside my head, 
but I found the courage (and made the mistake) to somehow defend 
Steve from this atrocious show of lack of any sort of reason, and 
failing horribly when I said:

“He was just trying to be polite! Please, Mama Adele, button up, 
for God's sake. What would if he just stared, like some sick 
rapist?”

Steve me gave a startled look, and I saw his eyes filled with the 
gleam of mounting horrors, his face broken like a man who knows 
he's lost a battle even before it has been fought. Mama Adele was 
adamant in her belief and said so with a bang of her hand on the 
table, her voice craggy but fierce:

“He'd be a devil-worshipping pervert straight from hell! But at 
least, he'd be a man! This one's just as gay as Mary Poppins. 
Believe me, I know. My last husband was gay, and I didn't know it 
until our wedding night, God bless his soul.”

“You got married? And then he died?”

I ineffectively tried not to sound as if these two facts were 
actually somehow connected. Fortunately, Mama Adele seemed too 
focused on her tale, actually sounding a bit nostalgic:

“Last spring. He avoided my trappings of sweet love like a fly 
would a spider's web. Even when I finally cuffed him to the bed, 
he couldn't get it up. He wouldn't even look at my breasts, or 
say something sweet about my ass. Gay as a peacock. God bless his 
soul.”

I swallowed with some difficulty. The old woman certainly had 
been strongly opinionated in the past, having called me a 
'beelze-bob' and a 'a peck of a cock' among other less colourful 
and not as endearing terms. But it looked like she had finally 
grown really old, and thusly, really weird in many ways, to the 
point that some courts would probably even deem she had lost her 
marbles for good. 'Just like Eileen,' I said in my mind and quite 
without expecting to, I picked up the jar of water and unloaded 
its contents on my head. `I'm not crazy!' she said inside my 
head, and I could feel her recide to a silent corner at the back 
of my head, as if she was suddenly holding a grudge against me.

Steve was looking at me as if I had just won a wet T-shirt 
contes. Perhaps he was trying to make some kind of signal the way 
his eyes seemes to flicker and roll furiously, but since I wasn't 
very fluent in eyeballing lingo, he only managed to roughly 
convey the general idea of someone constipated.

Mama Adele had buttoned her blouse when she gave me a remarkably 
constrained look:

“All the heat gotten to you, Bobby?” she said, and tore up a leg 
off the roast chicken all of the sudden, careful to chew on just 
the thick, brown and red crusty skin. I replied while acting as 
if nothing strange had just happened and cut myself some meat off 
the chest.

“Yeah, well, it's hotter in hell, right?” I said and Steve kicked 
himself back into motion trying to speak with an alarming sense 
of first-hand knowledge on the subject:

“Funny you should say that, cause actually it's not as hot as 
it's cracked up to be.”

I tried to kick him in the nuts to shut him up before he would 
say anything to deteriorate the already tenuous atmosphere or 
broach subjects that would only lead to more questions; I failed 
though, wildly flailing my leg as if something horrible was 
chewing on it. Mama Adele's curiousity was suddenly piqued and 
she stopped chewing, and started asking the weirdest kind of 
questions:

“What would you know about hell, queer boy? Last I heard, it's 
not just some tourist hotspot, you can just waltz in and out.”

“There are ways to see, hear and feel without being there. One 
must only be attuned with Mother Earth.”

There was this strange sudden turn in the way they looked at each 
other. Something had changed; they looked like a couple of 
gunslingers, carefully measuring each other as if there was going 
to be blood soon. I leaned back on my chair and unconsciously 
tried to keep my distance.

“So, you're Alabama?” said Mama Adele.

“What makes you think I am?” replied Steve with a frown that 
Dirty Harry would find hard to emulate.

Mama Adele put down the chicken leg, and reached for the large 
table knife. I watched Steve slowly but deliberately inch his 
hand to the large fork still stuck on the chicken. Mama Adele 
said then with an unusual and rather haughtily manner, in a 
something that sounded very much like gibberish but would prove 
to be otherwise:

“Ke-tche wake-na la-wonke a-kenai ute-na ke cho-wa demo-na-neka?”

Steve's eyes went wide before they narrowed to the point of being 
indistinguishable from a pair of dark-skinned slits. He said then 
without being able not to sound surprised:

“You speak the Lost Tongue. Ha-tche koi-noi wa-na-neka cho-de?”

“You sound surprised, shaman.”

“You're not who you say you are. You're gowa-na-di-tche,” Steve 
said sounding relieved but rather wary at the same time. His hand 
was now at the fork. 

“Au contraire, little spirit guide. I am Mama Adele. And so much 
more than you're able to comprehend,” she said and then I felt 
Eileen inside me come to the forefront of my mind and take 
control of every muscle, fibre and bone on my body. I think I 
shouted something like `the fuck you are bitch' and then the next 
few moments turned into what could only be described as a pretty 
impressive show of how old cutlery can be given new life by 
putting them to outstanding use as lethal weapons. Plus I was 
surprised to learn that my body could move like, well, like a 
god-damn ninja.

Mama Adele lunged at me with the table knife, aiming for a good 
clear cut of my throat. But everything was suddenly felt like we 
were underwater: her movement was slow and sluggish, even for an 
eighty year old woman coming at me for a knife, she moved like 
she was surrounded by jello. And so was Steve, who had picked the 
fork up and was bringing it down with quite some force from what 
I could read in his ridiculously taut face, which looked more and 
more like his real problem was a bad case of constipation. To 
make matters worse, the fork was still attached to the chicken.

While my body moved in its own ways, in ways that Eileen was 
probably to thank for, I had all the time in the world to think 
about what had just happened, seeing as everything seemed to move 
barely a notch faster than a Jewish snail on a Sabbath.

First of all, Mama Adele had this little weird moment of speaking 
in tongues, along with Steve who maybe had the bigger picture 
here. Then Eileen's spirit took control of my body at what 
must've been a very fortuitous time, because I don't think I 
could have dodged that knife fast enough to maintain the ability 
to swallow without getting wet every single time.

Not only did I dodge that knife, but I actually craned my neck 
backwards in a graceful move, with the knife missing me by no 
more than an inch, and then I thrust the table away with my legs. 
Even as I fell, I saw my hands extending to touch the wall, and 
leaving my body lying horizontally in mid-air, between the table 
and the wall, with Mama Adele realising she had missed and giving 
her knife another swing, only this time she was apparently - and 
this was a disturbing and painful thought - aiming for my balls.

With the corner of my eye I could see Steve finally realising the 
chicken was still hanging by that damnable fork, and he was duly 
making some very clumsy efforts at separating the two: he looked 
very miffed about it though, I'll give him that, and even as he 
swung the fork and the chicken above his head looking like a 
world-class hammer thrower, I could see he was quite frustrated 
but also determined to literally, pull it off.

All that sitting back and watching the fight unfold in front of 
my eyes like a cheap B-rated film, did nothing to hamper what 
Eileen was doing with my body. We were quite literally two people 
in one body, so while I craved for some pop-corn and soda to 
watch the action, Eileen was making the action happen.

It struck me as odd, that while there was this apparent struggle 
to the death between the three of us, I felt calm and relaxed, as 
if this was happening to someone else. From a logical standpoint, 
there was really nothing I could do, so watching and fretting 
about it wouldn't be of any help. 

So I just watched, as Mama Adele ripped my jeans open with her 
knife right at the seam of the crotch, missing the holiest of 
holies by a curly hair's breadth. No worries then I thought, and 
abruptly saw the room spin, watching the ceiling give its place 
to the floor and then the ceiling came into view once again, only 
this time my knee had connected violently with Mama Adele's face 
and I was surprised to find out there were so many cheap dentures 
still in the market.

Not only that, but I also put my hands deftly on the floor, 
kicked out and away hitting her groin, and then before she had 
time to even breath, I had managed to coil myself like a spring 
and then use the momentum to snap back upright, putting all the 
extra energy into a left-handed fist I swear could have knocked 
out a hippo on a rampage. Unfortunately though, she wasn't a 
rampaging hippo.

I know I felt her jaw crack and the force should have been 
enought to snap her neck. It was a killing blow, for sure. 
Whatever Eileen was doing with my body, and she was doing it 
extremely well, she didn't mean to just stop Mama Adele: she was 
trying to kill her outright. The problem was that Adele, or the 
gowa-na-di-tche as Steve had called her, wasn't on the same page.

The hook sent her reeling off the table, but somehow she used her 
hands like a fourteen year-old gymnast and turned the punch into 
a somersault that send her almost flying across the kitchen and a 
few feet away into the small living room where the TV was still 
on, showing a very familiar guy with wiry hair smiling on a beach 
wearing silly red shorts and surrounded by a plethora of large 
boobs.

Steve was finally able to pull the fork free of the chicken. When 
he talked I noticed that his mouth moved and I couldn't hear a 
thing. I half expected to hear everything slowed down and 
sounding badass or perhaps like an amateur satanic ritual, just 
like when your walkman is running low on batteries. Instead, I 
heard myself as clear as day:

“You had your chance, bitch. I'm gonna put a whole a new meaning 
on elderly care,” to which Adele replied with a toothless grin, 
licking her lips with what I'd wish wasn't her real tongue:

“Mama's got a brand new bag o' tricks, bitch,” and then she came 
at us with superelderly speed, knife in one hand and a very 
heavy-looking glass vase in the other.

I couldn't see what Steven was doing since I had focused on 
Adele. I stood there motionless as a stone pillar, and I saw in 
that same slowed down vision Adele coming closer and closer at an 
alarming pace.

A part of me wanted to duck, run, sprint away, make myself 
scarce, slide under the table and magically disappear, faster 
than possible, preferably at some point in the past. Another part 
of me wanted a sawed-off shotgun loaded with some double-aught 
buckshot, and an itchy trigger finger would be happily supplied 
by yours truly. I do not consider myself a violent person who 
believes armed confrontation is the best way to resolve a clash 
of interests, but seriously, the bitch tried to cut my throat and 
then my dick. She'd be so full of lead that the she'd become 
Radioactive's Man best dead buddy, at least until the next 
reboot.

But I did nothing of the sort. And Eileen seemed to be doing 
nothing at all, while I could clearly make out the reddish glow 
in Adele's eyes, as well as the blinding sheen of the knife in 
her hand, which was certainly pointed the wrong way, and was 
certainly past the `I'm just fucking with you' range. Which was a 
troubling thing, considering that the large, heavy vase had been 
launched, and the smart money was that my face was the target.

I thought that something had gone horribly wrong in a very small 
amount of time, and Eileen's spirit had suddenly remembered that 
it had let some sort of spiritual stove on, and had duly and 
without warning left everything hanging, without extending the 
slightest courtesy of returning control of my body to me, or at 
least killing the screaming bitch first and then doing the 
equivalent of laundry.

As I saw her toothless, gaping maw grinning with the excitement 
of an easy, assured kill, I also felt my body swiveling to the 
right from the waist up. I arched my back slightly backwards and 
saw the vase in all its glory from a very prestigious point of 
view, flying right past my nose, spilling very tiny droplets of 
water in its path.

Only a foot away, Adele's hand was already half-way through its 
downward stabbing motion and the knife wasn't missing. She had 
actually jumped in the air with bent knees, adding her weight to 
the force of the stab and presenting a somewhat smaller target. 
That's what it all looked like from my point of view, but I would 
be willing to bet the proverbial farm that this whole mess of a 
fight looked like a cheap parody of `300', with old ladies 
instead of Spartan soldiers.

Still, it looked real enough when I suddenly swooped under her 
arching arm with a superbly fluid motion and punched her straight 
in the nose with the back of my hand, while with my other arm I 
blocked her strike and gripped her arm in a vice. It was superbly 
executed and though I know nothing about martial arts, I 
instantly knew this would have looked great on Jackie Chan film. 
There was though, a small mistake that complicated things at the 
last possible moment and gave Adele a fighting chance, and that 
was a plain and simple, standard knee-in-the-nuts move.

First of all, I was in pain, and even though Eileen was in 
control of my body, I could sure as hell feel it reaching every 
inch of my body, spreading like a wildfire from the groin 
outwards. Secondly, I had little time to reflect on why or how 
Eileen's spirit had proven to be so adept at unarmed combat, but 
I was pretty sure that it had been conditioned in a woman's body 
because the way I moved left the precious stones quite vulnerable 
to someone with a cause.

While I reflexively released Adele's arm from my grip with one 
hand, my other one reached for my nuts, a reflex that never 
served any purpose other than leaving one unable to block any 
kind of hit, unless using one's head counted.

As I started to slowly but surely fall down on my knees in an 
ironically dangerous example of the saying `the spirit is 
willing, but the flesh is weak', I saw the sinister look on 
Adele's face and thought that it all felt suddenly very much like 
game over, with no credits left and all the pocket money gone, 
forever. I saw Adele's knife hand swooping down from a corner of 
my eye, going in for my throat once more, not to cut, but to 
stab.

One of her legs was about to meet my jawline and her free hand 
was just standing there, looking somewhat left out of the whole 
action. On a closer inspection, having nothing else to do while 
my body was unable to save us from a deadly stab and the many 
others like it that would probably ensue, I noticed her hand had 
gone slightly limb. And then I saw in great, shining detail a 
pitched fork squarely stuck between her forehead and an eye that 
seemed to be incredibly soft and squishy.

The other end of the fork was connected to Steve's hand, which in 
turn was thankfully still connected to the rest of Steve. I felt 
the pain numbing my senses, and the time flow normally once more. 
I was panting from the exertion feeling too weak to even attempt 
to get up, while Steve kept uttering the same kind of giberrish 
from before, the fork in his hand glowing with a bluish, 
white-hot intensity that seemed definitely wrong.

Adele was now frozen in place, her knife lying on the floor. 
Steve's veins were jutting out like someone had run a thick cable 
through them, and he was generally looking very fierce, pissed 
off and quite certain that Adele was a bad person, seeing how he 
kept trying to twist the fork deeper into her skull.

A moment later, she threw her hands into the air felt on her 
lifeless, arthritis-ridden knees, but not before she could speak 
with a venomous quality that reminded me of snake bites and 
show-biz journalists:

“Ka-che-tne, ka-weka-te, boy,” she said and slumped on the floor, 
appearing to be, for all intents and purposes, dead as a dodo.

Steven was panting as well, his face marked with the signs of 
incredible effort but immense relief as well. I felt I could try 
using the table as something to use as a standing aid, and did so 
with moderate success, while the pain receded with each passing 
moment, turning into a numbing sensation.

There was some silence while Steven pulled up a chair and just 
sat there, looking at the floor, his long hair in front of his 
face waving slightly by the wind of his breath. He reached for 
the inside of his jacket then, brought out his feathery hat, 
unfolded it and put it on his head all curled up still, looking 
shoddy and wrecked, as if someone had been carrying it in a 
pocket this whole time.

He looked at Adele's body with a degree of disdain that could 
only be comparable that shown towards a pile of dog poo, and said 
with a gloating roar:

“Who's the queer boy now, bitch?”

I felt the enormous sorrow in Eileen's spirit when she said 
inside my head:

“Now I remember everything.”

Speaking for myself I said:

“What do you mean everything?”

“She means everything, man. Every single thing,” replied Steve 
whose hard gaze fell solely on the old woman's body lying on the 
floor, looking inappropriately gruesome with the fork sticking 
out of her forehead.

“What does that even mean? For starters, what the fuck was that 
all about?” I said with just the right tone of indignation 
considering I had almost died. That was the third time that day, 
and the sun hadn't even began to set.

“Ask her,” said Steve with a weary voice.

Though thought is advertised as instant, it does take a little 
time to formulate in a thing as rudimentary as the human brain. 
In that time, Eileen had already spoken to me, saying the exact 
same thing.

“Ask him.”

I sighed. I sounded a bit confused, and understandably so I would 
believe, when I said with the slightest hint of ennui in my 
voice:

“She says, I should ask you. And you say, I should ask her? Is 
there possibly a way for you to sort it out and just give me the 
gist of it when you're done?”

My eyes caught the mess on the table, and I singled out the 
single salvageable thing: the chicken. My stomach made all the 
sounds usually associated with being starved, and then some. I 
sat down, dug in, and ripped a wing off the chicken. I 
immediately started munching away like someone set to enter into 
the Guiness World Book of Records as the human eating machine.

Then I heard Steve say:

“All right. You know, it's a bit complicated.”

I sucked the soft bits of flesh still stuck around the bone 
joints and said after I swallowed and while I reached for the 
leg:

“I can handle complicated, so long as it's not trying to stab me.”

Eileen had gone silent inside me, but I could tell she was 
listening.

“Some of the things, you might not like. Some of it, I'm pretty 
sure you won't,” Steve said looking thoughtful.

My stomach was churning like the Atlantic Sea, and I let out a 
small, rather polite little burp before replying:

“I don't think personal preference is an option. If it were, I'd 
taken my chances with Falconi.”

“Right. Where should I begin?” Steve asked rhetorically.

“The start is always a good place,” I replied smartly and smiled 
encouragingly.

“No, that would be very confusing. I'll start with something 
that's been bothering me for a while.”

“Yeah, well?” I said, and though I had some suspicions, I 
couldn't believe it even when I heard it from his own mouth:

“Well. Here goes.. I'm gay,” Steve said with a bright smile, I 
choked on a chicken bone and almost died, for the fourth time 
that day.

* * *

I was sipping at some sludge that Steve had made, insisting it 
was coffee, and though a large array of scientific tests could 
factually prove he was telling the truth, I could not think of it 
as anything other than a cup of swamp water with some mud thrown 
in for flavor. Fortunately for me, he made lousy coffee but 
perfect Heimlich maneuvers.

We had been talking for the better part of an hour, old Mama 
Adele still lying on the floor since no-one had bothered to even 
move it out of the way, just for the sake of appearances and good 
taste. I'd learned that there was some solid reasoning behind 
that as well. Some of the things Steve had said though still 
didn't fit, so I asked more questions, expecting some kind of 
answers. You'd be surprised how more often than not, the answers 
bring about more questions.

“So who turned Eileen into a crazy person?”

“Mama Adele was the agent, that's for sure. But she was just an 
instrument. A tool. Someone else was behind that. She, it, 
whatever you want to call the go-wa-na-ditche, was doing it on 
behalf of someone else, for sure.”

“And Eileen is in fact this powerful guardian spirit?”

“Yes, it is clear to me now, as it is painfully clear to her. 
She's an aka-ne-wha-dhe, a guardian of the spirit-world.”

“And you're gay? Really, gay? I mean, like, you're into men?”

Steve sighed and rolled his eyes before answering with some 
hesitation:

“Yes. I like men. Sexually.”

“How come you're not wearing leather and feathery hats and that 
kind of.. Oh, I see.”

He smiled and nodded, twiddling his thumbs with some nervousness. 
I had to know so I asked:

“You're not into me, are you? I mean.. I can't say this, but do 
you -”

“Get a hard on when I see your ass?”

“Sweet Jesus and Virgin Mary, don't say that!”

“I don't, Bob. I was just messing with your head. Can we get on 
to the important stuff now? Like why was Eileen caged by that 
demon?”

“So, you're saying you're not gay?”

“I'm saying I don't have the hots for you, man. Just get past 
that, and focus, please?”

“Yeah, okay, I can stop thinking about you might have been 
thinking about my ass.”

“Good. What has Eileen been saying to you?”

“Not much. She's pretty withdrawn. Feels like she's in shock. So, 
she wasn't really crazy?”

“No, not really crazy. That was just her imprisonment spell. A 
lock on her spirit. Even someone as powerful as her needs time to 
realise she had been living under a spell for decades. Played 
like a puppet, and by none other than the one person she felt 
cared the most. Must've been like a backstab through the heart.”

“But she's not really Eileen then either. At least not the Eileen 
I knew. Hasn't called me papa-bear either since she's been inside 
me.”

“I guess not. Though some of her, the real Eileen, must have been 
part of that persona that limited her true self, the Eileen you 
knew and married. It's not something airtight, something 
deterministic.”

“So, whom was I married too for two weeks?”

“Two weeks? That was the entire duration of your marriage. That's 
not even a honey moon.”

“By Las Vegas standards, it's like half a lifetime. Yeah, I know 
what you're thinking, and this might sound like something a cheap 
son of a bitch would say, but hear me out. I was young, rash, and 
adventurous, and had just done this job at a small but profitable 
motel. I had gate crashed this wild party where anything seems 
normal enough, and while I was drunk off my mind, mostly on the 
feeling of success of a job well done, I saw Eileen wearing a 
silly red hat, painted blue, and wearing a bikini made of less 
cloth than the standard handkerchief. I just felt I had to do 
papa-Smurf before I died, so I used my charm on her and before I 
knew it, I was wearing a ring, and singing the Smurfs theme, 
doing 80 in a rented Lincoln convertible headed for Memphis to 
meet my in-laws.”

“And that's how you got married? How come you didn't run off when 
the drinks wore off the next morning?”

“As I said, I was feeling adventurous, and rash.”

“Her father was pretty loaded, right?”

“Well, yeah. That might've played a small part. You know, base 
human instincts like greed can turn a good man into a shadow of 
his former self. Plus, at first I found the whole craziness kind 
of charming. And the sex was awesome. Weird, pretty fucking weird 
at times, but awesome.”

“And then what happened?”

I slapped myself hard on the face, and went rigid. Then Eileen 
took over and she didn't sound very happy about what she could 
remember, in lucid detail:

“I'll tell you what happened, mani-chi-kwa, spirit guide of the 
Alabama. Bobby here, sweet ol' Bobby, took advantage of my 
weakened mental state, and led me to believe he really cared. 
Like this dead bitch here who had been my captor and jailer for 
all these mournful years. Let her spirit be carried away to the 
void, when the time of reckonening comes.”

I placed my hands on the table, and felt Eileen's anger pulsate 
through my veins:

“I searched inside this man's mind and soul, and found out some 
shred of love for me was true. But his wickedness overcame his 
better human nature, and wealth blinded him. That was why he took 
off with whatever he could find in that safe, and why he has to 
repay me for this act of mine: Bobby Barhoe, I forgive you. I 
only feel loss and sorrow for the mother that bore this child you 
call Eileen into this world, for she had a sweet soul, and was an 
innocent creature. But the father.. The father must burn.”

Steve looked rather concerned and wary suddenly, fearing that a 
guardian spirit to say such thing was perhaps going to far in the 
pursuit of justice and spiritual balance. He asked then:

“Surely aka-ne-wha-de, you have been wronged terribly and justice 
must be served, and balanced restored. But we killed this demon's 
host, and you're awakened and free. What good will come of that 
burning that you speak?”

“Mani-chi-kwa, you are an example to your people and your tribe. 
But you are but an infant, a small child caught in a terrible 
wind. I fear I have been too late to wake. I have to thank you, 
and even Bobby here, for what you started. But do not make the 
mistake and think of me as a plagued human spirit anymore. I am 
Aka-ne-wha-de, and I shine brighter on the lonely path each soul 
must take.”

With that being said, I was released from her grip and felt a 
great burden fall away from me. I tried to talk to her, but I 
felt nothing. She wasn't there. I sounded a bit panicked when I 
said to Steve:

“Did you know this would happen?”

“Wild spirits such as hers are fickle, and rarely converse with 
mortals so candidly. We should be thankful that she shared all 
that with us.”

“But, I don't feel her inside me, at all. Is that normal?”

“I do not know. Perhaps she has returned to the spirit world. 
Perhaps she roams.”

“So, what does that mean? Was she serious about burning her 
father? I mean, Eileen's father? Novorski, anyhow.”

“I can't say.”

“So, where does that leave us with the shards? I mean, doesn't 
all this count as extra? How many more do we need? How do we get 
into the afterworld?”

“Easy now, Bobby, take a breath. You could be collecting shards 
from ants, and mice, and even rocks. But then you'd need a 
lifetime. That's why I thought your best bet was Eileen, a 
living, breathing human being, who seemed to love you truly, and 
freely give her soul. It looks like I was both wrong and right at 
the same time.”

“How do you mean?”

“The guardian's spirit saw the good in you, and the ritual I 
performed allowed her to free herself from her bonds, and find 
shelter in your body. But her true self lay dormant, and didn't 
wake up until she had to face the demon, the gowa-na-di-tche. 
That was when she realised who she really was, and what had 
happened to her. It seems that now she might want to do something 
about setting things right before returning to the spirit-world 
where she belongs.”

“Alright, that's cool. That's her thing, happy to help and all, 
but where do I stand? I mean, that's really fucking mind-blowing, 
guardian spirits, demons, spirit-prisons, Eileen not being crazy, 
me somewhere amidst all that supernatural mayhem, but Falconi 
will have my ass, and you know very well that no matter how long 
and hard I run and hide, my days will be considerably shorter and 
miserable to the point I'll likely just show up and let him put 
me to the ground sooner rather than later. So, I'm asking you? 
Are we good? Are we still on, like John said? Are we going to get 
to the damn parking lot, bring John back do the job and get 
Falconi off my back, or have I almost died four times just for 
the laughs?”

And right about that time, I saw Eileen, the flesh and blood 
Eileen, looking like she'd been run over by a truck. She was 
walking again then, which meant she had woken up, and there was 
some spirit inside her. I saw Steve reach for a large spoon, idly 
sitting inside a bowl of gravy and then I heard the sound of 
Eileen's laughter, which I was honestly glad to hear:

“Put that down, Steve. It's me, the Aka-ne-wha-de, you don't have 
to make a complete ass of yourself.”

“How can I know you're not the demon who robbed that flesh once 
more for himself?”

“Steve I thought you were good at this sort of thing. One, the 
`demon' as you call him wouldn't have to wait all this time to 
get inside this body. And two, which is I'm really surprised you 
forgot but I'm eager to believe is due to the shock and stress of 
all this, you killed the host so you send the spirit to the 
spirit-world, and now he can't come back unless he's summoned. 
Anyone did any summoning while I changed bodies? I wouldn't think 
so. I mean come on, no one watches Supernatural? Buffy the 
Vampire Slayer? You know, that sort of nonsense?”

“You talk funny,” said Steve sounding like a ten-year old boy who 
wanted to know but feared to ask.

“Yeah, well that's because before I wanted to feel like 
Aka-ne-wha-de again? You know, sound bad-ass, really unforgiving, 
regal, that sort of thing. Plus, I really wanted to make Bobby 
here know I was serious. The hard-ass guardian spirit that won't 
take any bullshit is something to be feared and respected, while 
Eileen is just, well, Eileen.”

“So, how should we address you, great guardian spirit?”

She looked spiteful, youthful and bossy all-in-one. Her face was 
familiar, but this was a whole new other person.

“First thing, stop sucking up. Second thing. Bobby, are you sorry 
for what you did to Eileen?”

I kinda hoped that sort of a question wouldn't pop up, but I 
that's just my string of luck.

“Wha-at? Well, yeah, of course. No, really. I mean, she.. You.. 
She, I'm pretty sure it was she, meaning another person, well 
technically the same but-”

“Stop behaving like an ass. Are you sorry?”

I paused for just one moment and said just what really came to 
mind:

“Yeah. I am. She wasn't that bad. Or that crazy. Maybe she was 
that crazy, but I shouldn't have taken advantage of her like 
that. That's just like stealing candy from a baby, and believe 
me, I've been there, I've done that, and it's not all it's 
cracked up to be.”

“I'll take that as a yes. You can call me Eileen. I'll call you 
Steve and Bobby, or whatever I damn well please at the time. Are 
we cool?”

Me and Steve nodded with some apprehension before I added:

“Yeah, positively, but listen, I'm in a bit of a spot, I'm sure 
you'll have noticed by now. So could you lend a hand, or should 
we just be on our way 'cause the clock's ticking and-”

“I don't like that tone. I didn't hear you say `please'.”

“Right, sure. Please?”

She beamed with a smile and said:

“I was going to anyway. We're in this together anyhow. I'll 
scratch your back and you'll scratch mine. It's only fair.”

“So, what do we have to do?”

Her happy face turned into an angry scowl when she said:

“Burn this bitch. The daemon host's body can't return to mother 
Earth. And then burn my father.”

My propensity to see the larger picture and innovate came to the 
fore when I proposed:

“Do we really need to resort to something that base? Couldn't we 
just shoot the poor bastard?”

Steve couldn't believe I'd suggest such a thing and stabbed me 
with his eyes.

“No, we need to burn him,” she said and sounded quite adamant 
about it. 

“Why so much hatred, Eileen?” asked Steve trying to straighten 
out his sorry-looking feathery hat, while I took the opening and 
popped my own much more pertinent and important question?

“I can think of some reasons, but to tell you the truth I don't 
care so much about the sorry son of a bitch. I haven't killed a 
man yet, but there's a first time for everything. How long will 
that take? I need to be at Topeca tomorrow, and have John ready 
to go at an epic vault with a blowtorch.”

“I'm fascinated by your willingness Bobby, and though I should be 
concerned, I think that's instinct talking. You won't have to 
kill anyone. Not a human, at any length. Novorski's a demon, just 
like she was,” said Eileen and tasted the sour cream before 
spitting it out on the floor.

“No shit?” I asked with genuine interest.

“No shit,” she replied as she opened the fridge and rummaged 
about.

“So, what does that mean?” said Steve, still trying to save what 
little remained of his feather hat.

“I hope you can help me find out. And I can help you get your 
friend John back. Isn't that what you want?” Eileen said, and 
unscrewed a bottle of iced tea.

“Well, yeah.”

“Don't just stand there then, burn this thing.”

“What, right here?” I said, feeling awkward.

“Do you want the neighbors to say a few last words?” she said and 
gave me the eye.

“I guess not.”

“Good. I'll watch some TV while you go about it. Then we can 
visit Novorski.”

“Watch TV?” I said, thinking I had simply misheard, and in fact 
she had said `become one with mother earth and all the living 
spirits' or something along these lines. Her answer flattened me:

“Yeah, `Married with children' is on.”

I thought that there was something seriously wrong with the world 
at large at that point, but then again, who was I to judge 
people, never mind guardian spirits of the afterworld no less.

“Never mind. Pretend I didn't ask. Hey Steve, any ideas on how to 
torch this thing?”

Steve's eyes were out of focus, lost somewhere between the TV and 
Eileen, gazing something far beyond mere mortals eyes. Or it 
might've been that he was just woolgathering. Nevertheless, he 
managed an answer of sorts:

“Yeah. With something flammable. Like, gasoline. Or maybe 
bourbon. No, not bourbon.”

“You have a drinking problem, you know that, don't you?” I said, 
put a finger in the bowl of sour cream, tasted it, and found out 
it was delicious.

* * *

Sometimes, the human mind has the propensity to eschew the really 
important stuff that pass through it, oblivious to the larger 
picture, indifferent to what's going on beyond it's comfort zone. 
Instead of being troubled by a crisis in the economy and a future 
without seeming hope, it fiddles with a remote, not being able to 
choose between American Idol and Hell's Kitchen.

There's a very good explanation for that and it usually has to do 
with the way these matters are disembodied, intangible and 
nefarious. What I cannot see and I cannot touch, is probably of 
no interest to me, and definitely somebody else's problem if it 
comes to that. And that's why, I couldn't think I had about 
twelve hours to live. That's why it didn't bother me that I had 
already almost died four times. Because I couldn't stop staring 
at Eileen's ass.

I'm not sure whether it was good old fashioned women's intuition 
or the fact that she was a guardian spirit of the afterworld, but 
she turned around and gave me that knowing look that was 
definitely meant to silently but effectively convey the general 
idea of being roasted on a spit, alive.

Then I heard this deafening burst of static from the PA that 
didn't seem to trouble by anyone else but me. I'd bet some good 
money that the announcer was wearing a Bud baseball cup and his 
actual name was `Bubba'. He talked in that giggly, wholesome, 
isn't-this-fun kind of way that deserves a punch in the face and 
a kick in the nuts, and the echo from the PA system was pure 
gold:

“Well, isn't this fun folks? Now remember, the “Knit that Sucker” 
contest begins at 9 o'clock, along with the Bellevue Home for the 
Elderly Cottonball Machine Technicians' ball right by the 
riverside. Now y'all have some ribs, courtesy of NovoCotton and 
Co., and definitely don't miss the “Married my Cousin” event 
coming right up!”

The Country Cotton Candy fair did not involve any kind of cotton 
candy whatsoever, despite its name. It mainly involved lots of 
people consuming large quantities of left-over soon-to-go-bad 
pork ribs, of whom most were drunk or definitely in the process 
of becoming so. As a bonus, most of them seemed to be relatives 
in all sorts of ways that were illegal in twenty-three states. On 
top of that, a significant percentage of the crowd seemed eager 
to perpetuate the tradition of keeping things in the family, and 
was eagerly working on making more relatives in situ, and in 
public.

We were there because Eileen had made a couple of calls. I 
thought she would just woosh about in some sort of tasteless 
ghost and freighten people out of their minds to get the info we 
needed, but it seems that in most cases just picking up the phone 
and lying your ass off to certain people with a straight face 
works miracles. Some people actually believed we were calling on 
behalf of the Elvis' Secret Moon Base Society, and a few of them 
could actually remember having attended one of balls. On the 
moon.

However, all that bullshit on the phone paid off and we learned 
that Novorski was sponsoring the fair -a highly prestigious event 
considering the amount of vomit already visible- and had been 
scheduled to appear right about midnight, say a couple of words 
to the gathered crowd and then probably go back to counting 
cottonballs in his well-guarded warehouse complex, complete with 
electric fences, a minefield, and a piranha-filled moat, with 
trained alligators for guards, riding sharks armed with lasers 
and rocket jets. That last bit of information could not be easily 
confirmed and was a bit doubtful, seeing as it came from a member 
of the local press, the same one who had insisted that he had 
attended an Elvis' Secret Moon Base Society ball, on the moon.

The fire at the mansion hadn't been on the news, and his private 
secretary hadn't said anything about canceling the appearance, 
though she had sounded very interested hearing about the Midget 
Awareness program going on in St. Cuthbert's and the annual Ms. 
Crucifix pageant. It seemed then that plan B was our best choice. 
Any plan with followed by the letter `B', usually is preceded by 
a plan A. Which is to say, the fair wasn't part of the original 
plan.

I'd popped the obvious idea that maybe Eileen being his daughter 
and all could just waltz up his office, ring the bell, get 
inside, say `Hi Dad' and stab him repeatedly with something sharp 
until he bled to death. But that wouldn't work because know she'd 
awakened, she was giving away a spirit aura that anyone properly 
attuned could see just by looking at her. Even though it sounded 
a lot like `I've got this awful headache', and `I can't do this 
lying down', she was pretty convincing when she tuned her aura to 
the visible spectrum as well, and I was surprised to know that 
the human eye could actually see all those colours without going 
blind.

With that idea being unfeasable, Eileen come up with a novel 
approach to the problem, based around a simple, easy to follow 
strategy that had proven extremely popular in the past, with the 
foremost memorable example being the Charge of the Light Brigade: 
Just barge in his warehouse office, kill him, and burn him with 
some gasoline or any other flammable material, except perhaps 
bourbon. It's useful to remember that even though the Light 
Brigade went down in history as a self-sacrificing act of heroic 
courage, sadly none of the men involved were available for a 
comment at the time of their honourable death.

Being a professional thief, one of the job requirements is being 
able to examine the many minutiae that comprise a plan and make 
an assessment of the plan's viability and chance of success, 
based on experience and preferably dependable, current 
information, taking into consideration the chance of acceptable 
losses.

Having taken all that into account, and after prolonged and 
thoughtful deliberation, the idea of barging in Novorski's office 
could only be compared to a village of natives in the Amazon 
waking up one day, and deciding they were the rightful rulers of 
the entire world, before promptly setting out to conquer everyone 
else armed with sticks, spears, stones, and the occasional sharp 
tropical fruit, arguing amongst themselves that the one hiccup in 
their plan was whether or not their canoes would be able to 
provide the required logistics support, mainly mangoes and coke 
leaves.

In other words, it was beyond silly. It was suicidal. So, we'd 
gone with plan B, which was to kill Novorski -who was in fact a 
demon, I had to keep reminding myself- right there, at the fair. 
The where and how remained to be seen. Probably once he had made 
his little speech. Maybe in some thick bush, while he was taking 
a pee, or inadvertently while stargazing. We'd have to wing it, 
and my spider-sense tingled erratically whenever I had to wing 
things, which had been a lot in the past few hours. So plan B 
didn't account so much for a plan and ergo wasn't that much 
better than plan A, but it did not involve sharks, piranhas, 
trained alligators, lasers, machine gun fire and assaulting what 
was in effect, a small fortress. 

What it did involve though was somehow getting close enough to 
Novorski to lure him someplace quiet away from the crowd, doing 
what had to be done and then burning the host without people 
getting in the way and asking questions like `why are you trying 
to stab that nice man?', or hearing the announcer say `oh golly, 
someone's shot Mr. Novorski in the head! What a show folks, eh? 
Now, y'all have some of those ribs'. As the saying goes, 
discretion is the better part of valor. Since my idea of valor 
was staying in the shadows and creeping silently behind the enemy 
at his most vulnerable time and spot, that also meant I was a big 
fan of discretion as well.

It was hot, damp, and dusk had just fallen. The fair was taking 
place at this large old barge station right by the riverside, 
where the smell of cotton seed oil mingled with whatever happened 
to be floating in the river, and the resulting odour was less 
than agreeable. We were wading through the milling crowds, doing 
light reconnaisance work, identifying the stage where Novorski 
would appear, and all the while being careful not to attract 
unwanted attention.

That translated into avoiding the usual hotspots in the gathered 
crowd, namely blind drinking contests (named so because the 
winner usually ends up with optic nerve damage), prostitutes (sex 
workers is a more catchy term, but in Memphis they still call 
them whores), and alligator fights (popular opinion is that the 
losing 'gator is turned into women's accessories, but some local 
news outlets circulated some rather more sinister rumors).

Shorts were the practical attire of choice for women, and since 
somehow they always looked shorter, and therefore better on 
women, I had one more reason to stay transfixed on Eileen's 
behinds as she waded through the crowd, surveying the place and 
filling in the gaps in the details of our little plan. She turned 
around suddenly once more and knew I had been focusing my 
attention on her butt once again. I smiled reflexively without 
bothering to think this was the new Eileen, and promptly enough I 
was in a position to try and remember the constellations of the 
northern hemisphere.

“You go girl!” I heard someone say, and then I realised that it 
was Steve who was unfortunately as drunk as a skunk. It seemed 
like when he said `I gotta go pee', he had actually meant `I need 
to go get drunk as skunk', which was perfectly reasonable taking 
into account that he had a drinking problem (those kind of people 
are still called alcoholics in Memphis).

If one needed proof of that, all one had to do was take a look at 
him and notice the shiny, embalmed and thusly quite dead skunk he 
was holding in one hand, the obscenely shaped carrot dangling in 
front of his nose tied with a red T-string around his head, and 
last but not least the fact that he had been carrying a 
ten-gallon beer can strapped on his back, with a regulator valve 
hanging over his shoulder, wearing nothing other than rubber 
boots and some boxer shorts sporting the american bald eagle, 
front and back.

That kinda caught Eileen's attention and while I certainly wasn't 
exactly gaining any points with her, Steve had just lost the 
whole pot.

“Steve! Where the hell have you been?” asked Eileen turning 
around and seemingly unable to believe the sight.

“The weirdest thing happened, I swear. While searching the 
bathroom stalls,”

“There aren't any,” interjected Eileen, hands folded across her 
chest, seething with anger.

“'Tis, not true, I found a whole stand filled with stacks of cans 
of piss, so I thought maybe I should give it a go, so I-”

“That was beer, wasn't it?” I said after having got up, still 
dusting off my behind.

“Was it? Tasted like rat piss, I think,” said Steve with as much 
naivete as his face could express wearing a piece of underwear 
around his head with a dick-shaped carrot tied to it.

“So you're wasted?”

“What, no, I was just thistry. And I met these midgets, and we 
hang out. And they said, you couldn't drink all that, and I said 
'course I can, I'm a shaman.”

“Midgets?” said Eileen, unable to comprehend, and rightly so 
because even though she wasn't herself, she wasn't mad anymore 
either.

“Yeah, and then we fought these ninja's, man. And I killed one, 
look. Got blood on my skunk.”

“No, don't do that, not here. Not now, please,” I said and I 
sighed.

Steve looked at me as if gazing through thick fog, and not being 
able to see a god-damn thing. He then pointed the skunk towards 
me and said, apparently confused, wide-eyed and drunk like a wine 
taster with nowhere to spit:

“Elvis! Man, I love you. Y' know? Not in that way, no. Never. Big 
fan. Lemme buy you a drink, will ya?”

“I told you he had a drinking problem,” I said and noticed Eileen 
was looking at Steve with a cold, hard measuring stare, as if 
deciding whether he should fillet him first or leave the bones on 
for that extra flavor.

“He's just the thing we need!”

“I know, you're right, but please don't start smiting stuff left 
and right, just calm down. We've got some time until Novorski 
shows up, no need to get agitated. I'm sure that after a couple 
of cups of dark coffee and a cold dip in the river he'll be right 
as rain before you know it,” I said trying to sound convincing. 
Hearing the words coming out of my mouth I thought I sounded just 
like an estate property agent saying to a couple of newlyweds 
that the old, haunted house that caught fire back in '89 and is 
now used as a meth lab by a gang of homicidal junkies is actually 
a real steal.

“Do you really think it'll wear off soon?” she said eyeing me 
with half an eye, while Steve was trying to eat the carrot 
dangling in front of his face, jumping up and down with wild 
abandon, and naturally meeting little success.

“No, not really,” I said sounding rather morose.

“Good,” she said smiling, and picking up a caramel-glazed apple 
from a nearby stand, and motioning me to pay the woman -or man I 
wasn't sure- behind it. I rummaged in my pocket, found a 
fifty-cent, and left it on the stand. I was about to ask Eileen 
why Steve's drunken stupor was a good thing, when I heard the 
actually slightly bearded woman behind me say with indignation:

“We don't need no stinkin' negro money. Now git!”

The many ways in which the sentence didn't make sense threatened 
to bog my brain down in a quest for the unattainable, the 
knowledge of how people as weird as the duckbill platypus have 
survived to this day. Thankfully though, Eileen just pulled me 
and Steve through the crowd, and said a few moments later:

“He's gonna be our distraction.”

“What kind of distraction? I don't understand. Are you talking 
about that dangling carrot?”

“No. Now pay some attention and stop looking at my ass,” she said 
and walked us hand-in-hand to a more quiet spot while Steve's 
head arched all around him, apparently mindful of all the ninjas.

* * *

Midnight was approaching fast. Eileen had gone to great lengths 
to explain her idea fully, but somehow I still had my 
reservations. I always did when things approached the hour of 
truth, and this was no different a case. It actually was far more 
important than any job, heist, robbery or con I had pulled off 
before. She had made it perfectly clear that Novorski, the demon 
was to be killed and burned, but not before she had a chance to 
ask a few very important questions.

If we didn't get what we wanted out of Novorski, she had made it 
perfectly clear that no amounts of spirit shards would open a 
doorway to the afterworld, the Parking Lot of Eternity and John. 
And that was something that curiously enough had to do with me, 
not Steve, and definitely not her.

I wasn't sure if she wasn't just playing me to her own ends, but 
then again I thought Steve had been a fed, which would have meant 
the FBI's standards were stooping too low, even for the likes of 
them. Giving her the benefit of the doubt and having no real 
alternative, I jumped on the wagon and assumed my place, waiting 
for her signal.

One could have said that things were ticking along with military 
precision if it wasn't for Steve who was roaming the stands 
making lewd gestures, not being able to hold his water like a 
grown-up should, making faces and obscene gestures at passers-by, 
and generally blending in sseamlessly with the rest of the 
fair-going crowd.

I kept my eyes continuously on him, and part of my job involved 
keeping tags on him. For the most part though, Eileen had 
entrusted me with a role that made good use of my existing set of 
skills; primarily lying, stealing, and running with the intention 
of not getting caught under no circumstances whatsoever.

For the better part of about two hours, I had been plying my 
trade like a pro. First, I tried picking some wallets, but most 
were devoid of cash, filled with pennies, plastic money, the 
occasional condom, and the usual NRA member's card. I switched to 
trying and lift some cash off the various stands, but all I got 
was some mexican pesos, some one-dollar bills in half, and 
monopoly money, which seemed to be legal tender here but wouldn't 
be any use in the real world.

Had been any other day, I would have called it quits, and gone 
home to a glass of wine and watch any film at eleven that didn't 
involve alien sex or Sigourney Weaver. But I had to make it count 
that night, so I went above and beyond: I raided the money pot of 
the `Save the Memphis Armadillo Fund', which also happened to be 
shaped like a huge armadillo and was placed smack in the middle 
of the whole fair.

Now, I rarely happen to talk about myself and how great a thief I 
am, but any professional in the business would admit it was a 
damn hard job to pull. And they'd also call me `an audacious son 
of a bitch' or in case their vocabulary didn't include the word 
`audacious', which is more often than not the case, `a cheeky 
bastard'. And that would be the right thing to say, because I did 
it in plain sight.

It was a basic technique among social engineers (who in Memphis 
were still known as con-artists), but one that was rarely 
applicable to the sort of jobs that paid off handsomely. But when 
the opportunity or the need for some quick cash arose, and the 
situation allowed for it, robbing people in front of their eyes 
and acting as if it was perfectly alright to do so worked 
amazingly well.

All I had to do was grap myself a Cotton Candy Fair T-shirt 
stamped with the catchy motto `Now y'all have some ribs' and tape 
a couple of pieces of paper on my front and back that read 
'STAFF', and presto, I was a bonafide fair organiser. All I had 
to then was walk up to the huge armadillo, lift its bottoms, 
reach into its innards and grab the plastic box brimming with 
some real cash, all the while smiling, nodding and waving 
encouragingly to everyone who happened to venture a look.

I then walked away, and counted the paper money without a care. 
It took some time but there was a hefty sum involved which proved 
adequate enough for what Eileen had in mind; and that was making 
a large, charitable donation to the fair, with the stipulation 
that the donor had to have a private talk with Mr. Novorski, in 
person.

And that person would be me. Because, naturally, I'm the go-to 
guy when dealing with demons, evil spirits from the afterworld, 
and all sorts of supernatural stuff that's really bad for 
personal hygiene. Particularly, I've heard dead bodies go to rot 
pretty quick and the smell's, well, rotten.

So I had a quick chat with a cheerful old lady who seemed to be 
the Country Cotton Candy Club's cashier, secretary, president and 
sole member. When I showed her the money, she had a second or two 
with herself before shaking my hand as if her life depended on it 
and assuring me that Mr. Novorski and I could have all the night 
to ourselves for twenty five thousand dollars, which she wasn't 
loathe to admit was almost as much as the annual `Save the 
Armadillo' fund raised each year more or less.

It kind of felt like buying the sexual services of a business 
entrepreneur who had become a male prostitute purely as part of 
an ongoing market research in an effort to diversify his approach 
to potential customers, which in fact probably meant that he had 
a very sick hobby.

It also felt like whatever money people donated each year, the 
armadillo would still be in need of saving, long past the sun 
going supernova, and perhaps even after the heat-death of the 
universe.

Having set the trap, my end of the job was done. All that 
remained was Novorski's arrival, and then we'd be game.

Steve was participating in a belching contest and though I 
couldn't hear from that distance, the applauses and cheers when 
his turn came were indicative of his chance at winning. Eileen 
was also watching albeit from a different angle. She shot me a 
glance and I shrugged knowingly and smiled. She shook her head 
and grinned, and I noticed Steve had just stage-dived, still 
holding his embalmed skunk way up high, as if it were some sort 
of tomahawk, an electric guitar, or a combination of both.

Then we heard from the PA, in that familiar, aggravatingly 
friendly-sounding voice:

“Now y'all put those ribs down, and keep off the hooch jus' a 
lil' while, cause the managers and directors of the Country 
Cotton Candy fair are proud to welcome our very own benefactor, 
well-known and loved for his many contributions to the community, 
Mr. Jeremiah Novorski.”

Nothing much happened, and the usual round of applause and 
perhaps cheers did not ensue. No-one really seemed to have even 
acknowledged the announcement, even less so the fact that 
Novorski had just appeared onto the center stage, prominently 
featuring right behind the huge, and by now mostly empty, 
armadillo. That prompted the announcer who had probably been in 
this kind of a somewhat awkward moment to make a suggestion:

“Now y'all better clap those hands for Mr. Novorski, or the 
skinny-dippin' party's canceled.”

To which suddenly, as if a light bulb had gone off above each 
person's head, the crowd responded with a hefty amount of 
applause, and a loud cheer. Novorski appeared to smile politely 
but very thinly so. I'm no expert on demons, spirits, and the 
like, but I'm pretty sure these sort of events weren't in his job 
prescription originally, and he loathed every minute of it, 
especially since it appeared like he was supposed to play the 
role of the good samaritan.

Eileen was standing with her back on a weeping willow, pretty 
much covered by all the low-stooped branches. I could see her 
features plainly taut with determined fury and a clear purpose in 
mind. It was one more reason why I was very relieved to not have 
her inside my mind. There was something about the way she 
clenched and opened her fists continuously that made me believe 
that just a glimpse of her mind right at that time would have 
felt like a floating balloon does in a shitstorm of monumental 
proportions.

Steve seemed happily enough completely unaware of his 
surroundings, quite drunk and jusging from the very rude body 
language about to exchange his laminated feathery hat for some 
sexual favours from what appeared to be a small group of 
height-challenged people (I believe in Memphis they're still 
called midgets). Now, I don't consider myself one of those 
judgmental pricks but the value for money on that deal seemed 
horrible, only I couldn't tell which of the involved parties was 
taking advantage of the other.

As far as I was concerned, Steve was probably having the time of 
his life, while everything important in my life, mostly the 
ability to keep breathing, hang by a thread. One could even say I 
envied him for being so care-free, seeing as the midgets put on 
his hat and rubbed his belly with cotton seed oil, but they'd be 
wrong.

Novorski's voice through the PA caught my attention, while most 
of the crowd kept on about their usual frolicking and 
lollygagging, and the midgets along with Steve were no exception 
either. I heard him say in that squeaky voice of his that was 
just as dreadful as when I had first met him years ago as 
Eileen's cotton mogul (filthy rich in Memphis terms) father:

“Good evening to y'all, I'm certainly going to enjoy it. I hope 
everything's going along smoothly, 'cause you know, smooth is 
fun, up to a point, right? I also hope that Ms. Robinson here, 
our organizer, has done everything in her power to keep things 
running along, like she does every, single, year.. Now, usually 
you'd hear me say a few things about how important it is to 
remember to support the local cotton industry, which is to say 
keep buying everything related to cotton, and especially that 
worthless cotton seed oil that's only good for gettin' your hands 
dirty and your rifle clean.”

That sounded a bit strange, bad-mouthing his own product. It 
unfortunately made sense though when he continued after he 
briefly paused and rearranged his belt:

“But this time, it's a different year all together, so I'd like 
to take this opportunity to set some things straight. First of 
all, I'm sick of you people. Don't worry, I'm not talking about 
Memphis. I'm talking about people, in general. I hate that 
pestering ability of yours to have hope, even when everything's 
going to hell like a fast-freight train. Which brings me to the 
next issue: and that is I'm not who I seem to be at all, and it 
was about god-damn time things got going, but you won't really 
mind about that, I've seen to it. Last but not least, Eileen, or 
whatever you call yourself now, you're in for a shitload of pain, 
honey. 'Cause you've been a naughty girl and daddy's real pissed.”

Those last few words in the wrong context could have been 
interpreted in a slightly perverted way, but when taken face 
value they kinda got me thinking that plans A and B were both 
painfully inadequate to deal with Novorski, who seemed aware we 
were going to be there from the start. And instead of bidding his 
time, he just literally sprouted wings, grew horns and fangs, a 
barbed tail, as well as an array of the assorted nasty features 
usually associated with demons, beelzebubs, balrogs and the 
armies of hell as portrayed in popular religious fiction. He had 
turned into the physical form of the demon he really was, and I 
wasn't sure we could just burn him now.

It was a bit of a laugh actually, realising that all those quaint 
depictions of evil demons were actually true, but it wasn't as 
funny when that demon stood twelve feet tall, with an impossibly 
inhuman but overly developed physique, the stink of rotten eggs 
and stale blood emanating from him reaching hundreds of feet 
away, and a very real, shiny, and quite sharp-looking set of 
serrated bone claws of the sort that make visceral death a most 
literal notion.

Eileen did not shy away though and stood her ground, looking at 
the demon with a piercing set of glittering eyes. That meant she 
wasn't about to start running which would have been my primary, 
secondary, and tertiary choice (and all subsequent choices, rest 
assured). She seemed to be grinning, like letting everyone know 
she was ready to put up a fight right then and there.

That didn't resonate all too well with me, especially seeing that 
Novorski had turned into a demonic creature weighing probably 
half a ton, and the ability to kill with a mere slap in the back. 
Not to mention its breath, which was in urgent need of some 
mentos (or any other freshmaker, take your pick, I'm not 
splitting hairs).

I wanted to help, sure, but I wasn't pretty sure about what I 
could actually do against something profoundly irrational and 
monstrous like Novorski, other than bleed profusely in the off 
chance that he might slip on my own pool of blood, fall on its 
back, and provide a mildly comedic intermission to the real 
fight. Because there was bount to be a real fight, and there 
would be blood. It felt like Mama Adele all over again, the 
difference being I felt we were slightly mismatched.

Especially since the crowds kept looking at the demon positively 
bedazzled, mostly pointing at him without realising what it was 
they were seeing and quite possibly thinking this was some sort 
of special event organized by the Memphis Association of Special 
Effects, which sadly in fact consisted of a twelve-year old boy 
with a penchant for vampire flicks and half a pint of raspberry 
syrup in his mom's fridge which happened to look a bit like fake 
blood, if one looked at it from the right angle, and under the 
right light.

No-one started to run, scream and shout, or alternatively fall on 
their knees, pray in despair for deliverance or grovel and offer 
virgins as sacrifice, both practices being equally probable in 
succeeding. In fact, I think that the `Married my cousin' and 
`Marty the Memphis Midget is a Mean Mother-you-know-the-rest' 
events were still going on unabated, judging by the sheer number 
of beer cans thrown at Novorski-in-demon-form from their 
respective spots, protesting for Novorski ruining the party.

Steve did more than just bat an eye-lid when he saw the demon. He 
instantly dropped the beer can he had strapped on his back, threw 
away the dick-shaped carrot and T-string, and rushed over me, 
skunk still in hand, while Novorski erupted into an evil uproar 
of demonic proportions that frankly sounded like someone facing 
severe stomach trouble. I was idly watching the crowd silently 
and almost on cue part in half and create a wide path, as 
Novorski jumped off stage, scaring the - still - living shit out 
of everyone.

Marty the Midget could be heard, shouting on his own `Think ya 
tough? Huh? I'm the Memphis Mean Motherfucker, motherfucker!', 
followed by shocked gasps from the majority of church-goers who 
had attended the show in an effort to fight profanity and evil in 
all its forms, but were somehow still undaunted and even 
indifferent to the demonic monstrosity that fumed sulfur and 
sported ember hot eyes that seemed able to peel one's skin by 
their mere gaze. Perhaps it was because the demon wasn't wearing 
the customary informative T-shirt based on a tune, like `Am I 
evil? Yes I Am', `This is the Road to Hell', or `Hell ain't a bad 
place to be'. Perhaps it was just the fact that these people 
seemed to act like mind-wiped idiots. Eileen then shouted 
something that attracted my attention:

“It's them! It's all of them! Their minds have been poisoned!”

“What about them? Who's `them'?” I shouted back while Steve took 
a laddle off a steamy stew pot still boiling on the “Neil Young & 
Stew Lovers' Appreciation Society” stand, fell on all fours and 
started doing something to the dirt that seemed similar to 
drawing. His movements and disposition were clear, precise, 
purposeful. He somehow seemed not just sober, but pumped up. I 
couldn't help asking him:

“What the hell are you doing? Aren't you supposed to be drunk?”

“Drawing. No, well, yeah but not really, no. I'll explain once 
this shitstorm's over, okay?” he said, hurriedly scribbling all 
sorts of jibberish and weird geometric shapes that frankly looked 
a lot like something I was fairly certain he had ripped off from 
Rosemary's Baby. I thought this was a really bad time for being 
so nostalgic about a film by Polanski. Eileen interrupted my 
train of thought with a regal shout, her feet barely touching the 
ground as she started levitating towards Novorski with a slow, 
deliberate pace:

“Their minds have been poisoned! They don't see the demon for who 
he really is! They might even turn against us! Stand fast, 
Alabama mani-chi-kwa, and protect Bobby with your life!”

I would have protested that these folks had very little in the 
way of brains, ergo minds to poison in the first place, but that 
thought somehow became something quite irrelevant when I realised 
Eileen had tasked Steve with protecting me, with his life.

That did in fact sound somewhat prestigious and certainly made me 
look like a really important person like all those famous folks 
who can't take a leak without someone watching over them in case 
something bad happens to them, say like a pot plant falling on 
their heads from a high balcony, or a group of bullets with the 
intention of using the famous folks as handy inertial dampeners 
(in Memphis they call that stopping a bullet).

That meant Eileen thought I was some kind of target. And that 
made me highly uncomfortable, and as was usually the case that 
sort of thing tended to kick off my run and hide instincts, 
perhaps the single most useful of the traits passed on from our 
human hunter-gatherer ancestors (that and the tendency to 
proliferate sexually - which in Memphis was still called 
porkin').

“That's it, time to split man. We tried, we failed. We can still 
keep the cash though, right?” I said with the slightest hint of 
hope to Steve, who had just finished a rough sort of circle on 
the ground and we were standing smack right in the center of it. 
Steve looked at me and replied in a very strange way which I 
didn't expect or liked at all because it involved doing 
absolutely nothing:

“Whatever you do, don't do a god-damn thing. Just sit inside this 
circle on the ground, and no matter what happens, whatever you 
see and hear, just pretend it isn't happening. If you don't do 
exactly as I say, you will get hurt, die, or worse. Do you 
understand?”

I nodded my understanding in a perfectly clear fashion that made 
my neck hurt, and was determined to follow Steve's advice. Even 
if every inch of my body wanted to start running on its own, in 
various mutually exclusively directions, at record-breaking 
speeds.

My fear was only strengthened when I saw Novorski purposefully 
stride towards Eileen, who was silently slightly bobbing up and 
down in mid-air, radiating a bluish neon light from her skin, as 
if she'd just come back from a really hardcore rave party where 
shooting paint intravenously instead of just dabbing it on skin 
was the norm.

The crowd was cheering and yelling boos at the same time, in 
anticipation of what they perceived to be some sort of UFC 
match-up the likes of which they had never even thought possible, 
not very much unlike what a real fight between Mothma and 
Godzilla would've looked like to a Japanese crowd: Unreal, yet so 
cool you couldn't resist touching it even if it meant losing a 
finger to frostbite. They were stupefied, fatally attracted, and 
grossly mislead alltogether: they threw ripe tomatoes at Eileen 
who seemed to be putting a lot of effort into resisting the urge 
to adopt a more vengeful attitude towards bystanders.

Novorski on the other hand had already tramped on a couple of 
folks unlucky enough to ask for his autograph. He was casually 
whipping his tail around as if it were some kind of pet making 
other suffer from its ADHD, and making gestures suggesting lewd 
activities that seemed to involve his bifurbicated tongue and - 
thankfully - asexual pelvis.

As some sort of invisible clock ticked away and everyone seemed 
to be attuned to the dispositions of its hands, I saw Steve had 
closed his eyes and was repeating the same thing, over and over:

“This was the right ward to draw and I didn't fuck it up.. This 
was the right ward to draw and I didn't fuck it up.. This was the 
right ward to draw and I didn't fuck it up..”

That kind of self-assurance led me to believe that Steve might 
have been the wrong person to assure my safety from this demon or 
any other threat that involved something more dangerous than a 
cake fight. My attention was drawn to what sounded like 
badly-greased chainsaws throttling away at a junk yard:

“Bobby Barhoe will be ours! And you'll go back to your 
housekeeping chores!” gruntled the demon, who grinned with all 
the malevolence usually associated with his kind, showing off a 
couple of tusks that shone sharp like razors. Eileen's response 
was immaculately well-thought, original and appropriate for a 
spirit of her stature:

“Eat shit and die,” she said with a calmness that belied her 
strength, raised a hand, and out of the clear night sky without a 
cloud in sight I saw lightning strike at the feet of the demon, 
with a blinding flash of light and then a sound of cracking air 
followed by the deep rumbling echo of mountains crashing into the 
sea that made me think the world was coming apart at the seams.

It was an astonishing show of sheer power and command over 
nature, an unparalleled tour-de-force that made Eileen look like 
a heathen goddess of yore, powerful and unforgiving, smiting 
folks all day long for no apparent reason and them thanking her 
for it as well. Too bad it didn't actually do anything to 
Novorski, who appeared to be unscathed through the little wisp of 
smoke the thunder had left behind. The smile on his grotesque, 
demonic face had a gleaming quality about it, which implied he 
was enjoying this immensely. His voice was sticky like tar from a 
hell-pit:

“That tickles. My turn, princess,” he said and with the speed of 
world-class sprinter jumping the gun he flung himself towards 
Eileen with just one flap of his wings and a giant leap, his arms 
outsretched and taut, ready to clench her in a swoop of his claws 
that would leave little to be imagined about what guardian spirit 
hosts looked like on the inside.

His ferocity was abundantly evident; his supernatural physique 
left no doubt about the extend of his strength, speed, and 
agility. He was a demonic machine, bred for bloodletting, 
destruction and chaos, indeed designed to wreak havoc on human 
flesh. But there's always flaws in a design, and that fact was 
remarkably pointed out when Eileen arched her back all the way, 
hands touching the ground, exactly the moment the demons' claws 
sweeped at nothing but air, and then sidestepped him by rolling 
to the side, avoiding his kicking legs and tail with a motion so 
graceful and regally syncopated, it reminded me of a cross 
between Grace Kelly and Nacho Vidal.

As the demon flew past Eileen without being able to hide his 
aggravation and surprise. He managed to bring himself to a stop 
after a few yards, and I made the mental note that somehow these 
things were limited by physical laws as much men as the rest of 
us. Which was probably a good thing, as long as they were somehow 
persuaded to fall from tall cliffs and onto jarred, sharp rocks.

Steve still hadn't opened his eyes, but he had at least stopped 
reminding me that we the circle around us with all the cursive 
writing and the weird sex symbols was just a circle and nothing 
more, and the only thing that stood between us and that thing was 
Eileen. He did ask though:

“Is she dead? I hope she's not dead.”

“No, she's not dead. Have a look yourself. I don't see what the 
fuss was all about, to tell you the truth. They seem to be 
keeping it pretty civilised. Couldn't they just do that from the 
beginning? I mean, what's the danger to protect me from if he's 
occupied with her? I just don't see it,” I said, and when I 
turned to look around me I immediately knew I had a very big, 
very stupid mouth, which in Memphis was sometimes called a 
piehole.

“Bobby, I'm not sure why you haven't noticed, but I can hear 
those snarls and moans, and I can see those mindless people 
turned into evil zombie undead thralls. Now, if you are refusing 
to see them, I can marvel at your willpower and I certainly 
respect it's your prerogative to see things your way, but the 
fact remains, there's about at least three hundred zombies coming 
our way, and all that stands between them and your brain is this 
warding circle,” Steve told me with acute worry in his voice, and 
the fact that he was wearing shorts with the picture of a bald 
bird did nothing to reduce the severity of his words. I said the 
simple truth that dominated my thoughts:

“What can I say? I was watching Eileen. I wasn't prepared for 
zombie night fever.”

“Just stick to what I said. Do nothing. Shut your ears and eyes 
if you can't stand what your senses are trying to tell you. It 
should work. If in doubt, it's not happening,” he said and closed 
his eyes once more, this time humming the theme from Rocky.

“It should work?” I asked in vain but did not bother to wait for 
an answer or to press the matter further. What was going on in 
the background, behind the approaching throng of Memphis folks 
turned zombie demon thralls, as far as I could tell, was pure 
mayhem.

Though I didn't have a clear view, I could see fireballs the size 
of car shooting up in the night sky. Some of the fireballs the 
size of a car where actually flaming cars, but that was just a 
pedantic difference. I also saw lots of lightning, sheets of hail 
and spikes of ice, flying blocks of stone, as well as giant 
swirls of water raised from the river and hurled at Novorski. 
They were swooping, and tilting and turning in the air, with 
Novorski trying to get his claws on Eileen, while she kept 
pounding at him with everything nature could provide. Except fire 
which seemed to be kind of a second home to the demon, seeing as 
he writhed in red hot and yellow-white flames.

Steve tugged at my jeans at a really inappropriate place, and I 
thought that being gay and perhaps about to die was in no way a 
valid reason to try and fondle my private parts. I saw that he 
was just reaching for me blind, keeping his eyes shut, but 
mysteriously saying nothing:

“Goddammit Steve I thought you were trying to touch my-”

“Shhhhh! Listen! Don't talk! Just listen! Close your eyes, and 
listen!” he said and acting on his earlier advice, namely to do 
as he said, I closed my eyes and listened.

And all I could hear was shuffling summer flip-flops across the 
Memphis soggy riverside ground, interminably coming closer and 
closer, their feet meandering at the edge of the circle, their 
hands outstretched, and quite possibly hungering for brains, or 
other vital parts. In a rare fit of actually thinking about how 
things could be worse, I imagined that maybe there existed such a 
thing as a gay zombie. I didn't dare think about that further. I 
simply said to Steve with a wavering voice:

“I hear them, Steve, I hear them.”

“You do? So I'm not just imagining things! Maybe those ninjas 
were real as well, then?”

“No Steve, these aren't invisible ninjas. These are zombies, and 
they're right here. If I reach out my hand, I can touch one,” I 
said matter-of-factly despite the sheer terror at the thought of 
touching something that wore flip-flops as if it was a real shoe.

“Yes, yes, I can see those fine, man!”

“I thought you were trying not to look,” I said as another 
fireball erupted in the backdrop, and Eileen flew into view, 
responding with a flurry of zapps of lightning that made Novorski 
giggle as if it tickled.

“Well, I peek. But, really, try to hear them, man. Can't you?”

“I can hear Eileen's lightning bolts and mini sheet storms, I can 
hear Novorski's fireballs explode among the trees. I can even 
hear Marty the Midget still going on about how he once knocked up 
two twins while sleeping with one of them. What else, do you want 
me to hear?”

“The 'choppers man, the 'choppers..” Steve said, and I heard the 
feint but characteristic sound of music spreading upstream the 
river, wading in the night sky. I couldn't hear any choppers, but 
after a moment or two, above the snarling throaty sounds of the 
mindless Memphis denizens that encircled us, I could hear the 
unmistakable of sound of Wagner's Die Valkyrie, and I suddenly 
smiled and thought that all this was just a very elaborate film 
set.

I kind of dismissed that idea when the corn started falling from 
the sky, horns and other brass instruments blaring in epic 
fashion.

Thick pellets of corn started shooting out of the sky in wide 
jets, as if someone was throwing it at us through large hoses. I 
instantly caught a whiff of garlic, and saw the gathered zombies 
unable to resist themselves, and opening up their mouths to gulp 
down as much of it as they could, like a water-starved man does 
when it finally rains.

In the background I could see the demon looking surprised, even 
apprehensive, trying to fly away from Eileen instead of trying to 
cut her into little pieces like earlier. It was as if he was 
thinking what was happening was bad for him, and he was trying to 
escape. I couldn't make a possible connection, until one of the 
zombies grabbed me by the shoulder and asked me:

“Hey ol' buddy? Mind if get that laddle back? Kinda need it to 
stir the stew, y' know?”

“Yeah, sure,” I replied, completely flabbergasted while Steve 
started yelling right in my ear:

“It's them! Woo!”

“Who the fuck's them anyway and why is corn falling out of the 
sky? And for fuck's sake, why Wagner?” I asked, feeling quite 
irate and definitely believing that some kind of explanation, 
however illogical or impossible was in order. And as the crowd of 
former zombies dispersed pretty much in the same way as it had 
been formed, returning to whatever they had been doing before 
they were turned into hopefully unwilling minions, I watched as 
Eileen was nowhere to be seen, and Novorski had vanished as well, 
leaving nothing but flaming debris and the occasional cinder of a 
tree, which weren't that unusual for a Memphis riverside fair on 
a summer night.

My question wasn't left unanswered for too long, since I suddenly 
saw the demon form of Novorski being shot through with a couple 
of harpoon-like sharp things, from which a run of cables seemed 
to disappear into the night. Not a moment later, the harpoons and 
the cables flashed electric blue and seemed to sizzle hotter than 
a melting pot.

Like I had noticed earlier, demons seemed unable to escape the 
laws of physics, so this one was dropping down fast. The Wagner 
music was no more when I heard a splash and then the usual hubbub 
of the crowd which as always, seemed happily oblivious to 
absolutely everything that had happened, apart from the fact that 
Marty the Midget had peed his pants, for no apparent reason, and 
from what I could hear that stirred up some pretty heated debates 
on whether or not that was legal in the state of Tennessee. 
Still, there was no sign of Eileen, and that was kind of 
unsettling. After all, I was only almost knee-deep in corn 
because I needed her to help me save my ass.

Steve suddenly cried and pointed to the sky right above us, while 
I felt the gentle rush of a downwind ruffle my hair:

“Them man, THEM!”

“Yeah, but who are they?”

The downwind grew into a real gale, and the stands around us fell 
over, and some were even carried away, while the few folks who 
had been sitting behind them, just kept on pretending everything 
was in place, while I could now feel hot air trying to strip most 
of my facial features off my face. I could barely open my eyes 
but I could still see Steve had done a hell of a job with his 
teeth, as a constant turbulent flow of hot air was shot on his 
wide grinning face, his teeth clenched as if glued together and 
the skin around the mouth fluttering away as if someone was 
trying to slice jello with a jackhammer.

Then I saw it with my own eyes, and while still unable to explain 
most of it, the idea that this was actually an elaborate movie 
set popped back into my mind as the hull of a large blimp became 
visible as it had just touched the ground, with what resembled a 
quad of tilting engines coming to rest in an upright position. It 
looked a lot like the Goodyear blimp, only beefed up, painted jet 
black, and giving off an aura of being indestructible, even 
though the damn thing would probably fall right off the sky if a 
bird with a really pointy beak decided it had issues with it.

Steve was looking relieved, calm, and beaming with enthusiasm. He 
reminded me of someone who has just had great sex with some 
twins, followed by a Cuban cigar, a glass of Hennessey, and 
couldn't wait for the Baywatch rerun to start on TV. Then the 
blimp's cupola door swung open and I saw this tall black fellow 
pop out, dressed in a black suit, white shirt, black tie, wearing 
a pair of black glasses coming my way, hands easily visible, his 
posture cool, and calm, business-like and natural.

I was about to ask what the hell this was all about when I saw 
Steve smile like this was moment was purely golden and then I 
heard him say just when that other man in the suit was only a 
dozen or so feet away:

“My niggah, Jules! Boy, am I happy to see you!”

The black man in the suit stopped abruptly, and didn't look as 
happy as Steve. In fact he looked like he had been offended 
somehow. He said then:

“Niggah, please. Do I know you? What gives you the right to say a 
niggah you ain't never even heard of, `niggah' niggah?”

I think I cleared my throat before deciding to speak, which was 
the perfectly wrong thing to do:

“If I could just ask a simple -”

“Now who the fuck died and made you king?”

“Wha-at?”

“Wha-at ain't no king I ever heard of!”

“Whaa-aat?”

“Say what again, motherfucker! I dare you, a double-dare you 
mother- .. Oh, man, shit, I'm sorry. I mixed up my lines. Shit, a 
niggah can only be so many places at once, right?”

Steve took the opportunity to try and set thing straight, perhaps 
make some sense out of this:

“Well, I think you're absolutely right. See, this is-”

“I don't recall asking you a god-damn thing!” he roared and 
pulled a really hefty looking Magnum with a silver finish that 
had a blinding sheen under the moonlight, and pointed it at 
Steve, who subsequently went silent and seemed content to just 
listen. The man in the suit then looked at me and said:

“Jules Caesar, T.H.EM. Agent, at your service. I'm really sorry 
for the mixup, I wasn't briefed extensively. You'll have to come 
aboard, as we're all in a bit of a hurry, aren't we?”

“You mean in that thing? Who are you? Some kind of men in black?”

“What? Shit, no, nothing to do with those alien freaks and 
cheap-skate postal agents. We're Topeca Holistic EMergency. 
You'll be briefed en route, sir.”

“Topeca what? En route? Listen, where's Eileen? I need to talk to 
her.”

“She's safe with us, sir, already en route.”

“En route the fuck to?”

“Topeca, sir. I believe you need to be in Topeca, is that 
correct?”

“Well, yeah. And that thing can fly us there in time.”

“You'd be amazed.”

“Are you sure?”

“Sir, can a rhino dance the waltz?”

“I don't follow the logic.”

“Well, we sure as hell can make a rhino dance the waltz, sir. 
Now, please, clock's ticking and there's no cure for that. Agent 
Johnson will ride along.”

“So you do remember?”

“Shit, niggah. How can I forget? I was just fucking with you, 
man. Hop on.”

“Well, you got me there, niggah!”

“Niggah, please. Don't call the niggah, `niggah', 'aright? I'm 
getting itchy fingers here.”

Within moments, we were inside the blimp. And within minutes, we 
were moving a few times faster than sound. Before I had the 
chance to even know what the fuck I was doing on a supersonic 
blimp on my way to Topeca, we landed. And then it just got weird.

