

Lillies on the Niger

a story in the forgotten Land of the Rising Sun

by Vasileios Kalampakas

Aug 4, 2011




Published by Vasileios Kalampakas

Copyright © 2011 Vasileios Kalampakas





ISBN : 





Printed on demand through createspace.com



Available in print by Amazon Inc. and other retailers

Available in e-book form from http://www.stoneforger.com, the 
Amazon Kindle store, and other online retailers. 



You can reach the author at this e-mail address:



kalampakas@stoneforger.com



Written and typeset with the LyX document processor 

from http://www.lyx.org





Cover made with the aid of the 

GNU Image Manipulation program 

from http://www.gimp.org



Cover art by





This time written with a plan in mind





Table of Contents






Thanks

 Thanks to Minas Pergantis for editing this one (or maybe botching 
the job)




Dedicated to all those who have met their fate and did not shy 
away from it, no matter the cost.




“There is a house in New Orleans, they call it the Rising Sun”

- The Animals, The House of The Rising Sun






In her Majesty's service

Sweat ran freely down the red-haired Englishman's temples, 
smearing the jungle camo on his clean-shaven face. A knife blade 
covered in dry mud sat in his left hand, while his other hand 
made a rough circle in the air. It was a hand signal for the 
command to encircle the target.

Five men melted away into the green humid jungle in a heartbeat, 
as if they had been an optical illusion. They moved fast; faster 
than what Ethan had believed them capable of. He decided to stand 
back for a little while more, and see how they could handle their 
approach on their own.

All of them stopped dead in their tracks and hunched low when 
they heard noise, probably from the direction of the clearing up 
ahead. The two men that formed the edge of the squad aimed their 
rifles outwards from the squad, as if a switch had been thrown. 
The point man laid himself flat with the silken grace of a cat, 
knife drawn in his right hand while his left hand reached out for 
his Colt zero-point-forty-five. The rearguard moved like a pair 
of dancers, covering each other's back, both aiming their rifles 
from shoulder-high, safeties clicked off to single-shot 
selection.

In that cautious small diamond formation they moved as a whole, 
each step forward made with practiced ease and well-earned 
confidence, the mark of a well-trained soldier. For all intends 
and purposes, and as far as Ethan was concerned, he had done a 
good job training them. What did bother him though was that they 
had yet to fire a shot in anger. He knew that nothing tests a man 
like real combat.

Though they moved precisely as they had been taught, and seemed 
quick and stealthy enough, Ethan couldn't really tell if they 
just went through the motions or if they were really up for the 
challenge. After all, no matter how much one practices before a 
show, it's the opening night that makes or breaks it.

Ethan's free hand was wrapped tightly around a metal L-shaped 
trigger attached to a small box no larger than a pack of 
cigarettes, from which a run of cables protruded and got lost 
somewhere under the rich jungle tapestrie of green and brown. 
With a tight grin, Ethan whispered to himself with the 
expectation of a job well done:

“Showtime, lads.”

When he double-clicked the trigger the first thing that attracted 
everyone's attention were the flashes. And then came the 
shockwaves, their force pummeling at everyone, making every 
ribcage vibrate intensely as if tremors had seized them. And that 
was just the opening note.

Small gun fire erupted from various well-placed locations, the 
muzzle flashes dotting the lavish scenery as if hundreds of 
photographers clicked in rapid succession.

The scouts instantly dived for cover, falling prone while keeping 
their arcs of fire fimly fixed to their own particular zone of 
responsibility. A wry smile formed on Ethan's face: he seemed to 
be enjoying the performance.

The five trainees were on their bellies, rolling and crawling 
over the jungle bed in an effort to find as much cover as 
possible in mere moments. They exchanged quick glances and made 
repetitive hand motions to each other, communicating silently 
trying to establish a point where they could fall back away from 
the guns blazing at them.

Every tree trunk and low bush or gully counted for gold at times 
like these, and the five Marine scouts from the 3rd Marine 
division made excellent use of their surroundings. Very much so 
that Ethan felt a twang of pride at seeing his handiwork in 
action. They were his men, and they seemed every bit as 
professional as he intended them to be.

They quickly abandoned their exposed position for a slightly 
shallow depression with good cover, fat tree trunks strewn around 
them with thick bush for cover and a clear view on all sides. A 
defendable position from which they could easily spot a move 
against them and fall back while they harassed their enemy firing 
and moving in turns. Ethan's mind flashed with the sudden 
realisation they were good enough to be Royal Marine scouts, not 
just Nigerian troops.

He almost felt a hint of regret he couldn't be there with them 
when it really mattered, when the guns pointing towards them were 
not loaded with blanks; when the explosive charges half a mile 
away were real shells and mortars falling right on them. 

Almost, as Ethan reminded himself inside his head, was the 
eminent keyword: This was not his war, not by a far chance, and 
setting up mock engagements such as this one was as close as he 
wanted to get to another warzone. Except for the times when he 
itched, except for the times he woke up in the middle of the 
night drenched in sweat, knowing it wasn't the tropical heat that 
left him sleepless thereafter, but faces all too well remembered 
and defined.

The team of five men had dug themselves in taking solid cover. 
The gunfire died down soon afterwards, and Ethan believed there 
was no point in continuing tracking and crossing the jungle. He 
had seen what he wanted to see, and that was a team of scouts, 
not a bunch of gung-ho Nigerians hollering with rifles raised 
firing on auto, vying for Igbo blood.

Ethan raised himself above the brushes and bellowed as if he 
wanted the cadets back at Sandhurst to hear him clear as rain:

“End of session! Fine job lads!”

The team of five gave no sign of sight or sound that they had 
heard their instructor. Ethan repeated himself with less 
enthusiasm:

“Come on, games' over! Let's head back for some rest, off we go.”

Still, nothing could be now heard other than the usual sounds of 
the jungle, the distant cries of birds and monkeys, and the 
constant buzzing of mosquitoes and other assorted exotic insects.

Ethan furrowed his brow and briefly considered that the team 
might have actually extracted themselves without him noticing, 
and decided to check the small depression himself. With a hurried 
pace, he made his way through the brush and in a few moments 
reached the position he had last seen them take cover in.

He saw noone, but suddenly felt a piece of metal poking him 
through his left side, right between his ribs, poised to pierce 
his heart at a single thrust. He had been caught unawares, and 
once he looked sideways to his assailant, he saw Onko, the team 
scout leader smiling wildly, his bright white teeth a stark 
contrast to his camouflaged dark face. A little stunned and a 
little bit surprised, Ethan barely had time to let off a curse:

“Bugger me, you've grown into a real scout Idowu.”

No longer wearing the same disarming smile, the nigerian marine 
responded with a heavy accent, the nigerian pronunciation thick 
and strong:

“You grow soft, Captain Whittmore.”

Onko then sheathed his knife, and the four other men suddenly 
appeared from quite unlikely and widespread places, from any one 
of which they could have put a bullet through Ethan at their 
leisure.

Ethan nodded and made a small sigh, as if acknowledging he had 
indeed let his guard down and been overcome, exactly what he 
tought his recruits should never happen, not even while not in 
the battlefield. Cultivating a little paranoia went a long way in 
keeping a man alive, especially in a civil war where telling a 
friend from an enemy was not as clean a business as shooting at 
one.

Ethan did manage to save some face though when he pointed at his 
feet to a small bump in the ground, leaves cluttered all over it 
and said:

“See now Ibrahim, that's a mark for a landmine. You might have 
killed at least one man when you chose to fall back here.”

Onko seemed far from smiling at that comment, and with a mixed 
expression midpoint between anger and disappointment he said to 
Ethan, making it sound almost like an accusation:

“There was no place else to fall back and cover, Captain. It was 
a death trap then, for sure. What could we have done different? 
Not fair, sir.”

The word `sir' had a strange ring to it, and that probably was 
because it was meant to sound off-putting. Ethan only cared to 
answer briefly right before he turned about and started walking 
to the gathering area of the training field:

“All's fair in love and war, sergeant. Says so somewhere, I'm 
pretty sure of that.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

In the warm light of neon orange, Ethan searched his pockets for 
the some small change, but to no avail. He rarely needed dimes 
and pennies when he made his cosmopolitan visits to the center of 
Lagos, but using the jukebox in Loui's bar was such an occasion, 
and even more so a favourite habit.

In fact, Ethan was not a rare visitor to Loui's establishment, 
and most would instantly recognise him. He was widely known as 
the Englishman, both to the few locals and the numerous 
extraordinary foreigners that frequented the Metropolitaine.

Ethan maintained that he only came for the regularly up-to-date 
jukebox, whilst his tab indicated a thirsty sort of music lover 
with a certain taste for fine malts.

Malts such as the unusually fine scotch that Loui kept stashed 
for the well-off or even well-liked customer. He had simply 
decided to thank God there was good scotch to be found in a place 
like Nigeria and even more so in a bar like Loui's. To make the 
realisation even more mind-numbing for Ethan, there was good 
scotch to be found during what the Nigerian government chose to 
characterise as a `crisis'. The Metropolitaine's crude and shanty 
decoration, or more appropriately its blatant lack thereof only 
helped to somehow accentuate that a war was going on.

A couple of ceiling fans still worked despite what one might 
expect at first sight, barely keeping the air from going stale.

It was with his usual wide grin that Louis, the proprietor, 
approached Ethan and offered him a penny before bowing slightly, 
impeccably dressed in a striped jacket, white pressed shirt, 
bowtie and smart pants, an air of the thirties Paris about him. 
Ethan accepted the coin gladly and immediately dropped it in the 
slot, while Louis chimed in his blatantly french but not 
unbearable accent:

“Compliments of the house, Capitain. The usual? Little ice, 
double fine scotch?”

Ethan smiled wryly and nodded while selecting a song in the 
jukebox, his index finger searching for the correct button to 
press. He pushed `Under my thumb', and turned to reply to Louis 
before setting off to settle in his usual barstool, the bar 
solely at his disposal at that hour:

“Very fine scotch.”

“Nothing but Scotland's finest, Mr. Whittmore.”

Ethan sat on the barstool, his eyes staring at the glasses and 
various bottles of liquor neatly arrayed and featuring 
prominently in the shelves behind the bar. When he next spoke, it 
was with a feeling of relief:

“I'd never thought I'd say this, but God bless Nigeria.”

Louis had assumed his proper place behind the bar when he picked 
up a bottle of one of his finest malts from a cupboard below 
along with a short glass, and said smiling wryly while he poured:

“I'm from Guiana though.”

“Ah, and Scotch is from Scotland but it knows no borders. Come on 
then, pour one yourself.”

The unusually tall, lank bartender complied and picked up a shot 
glass which he filled promptly and raised to a toast:

“To all the thirsty men.”

The Rolling Stones song had started playing in the background. 
Ethan raised his own glass of scotch and made a toast as well:

“To Mick Jagger and crew.”

They both gulped down their drinks in one go. Ethan made a slight 
motion with one hand, indicating the cupboard below.

Louis went through the motions of pouring another glass of scotch 
and asked his regular customer for the past year or so with his 
usual air of cool affection:

“How's life treating you?”

Ethan's tone was lighthearted, almost flippant when he said:

“Not sure. Better than horseshit? I'm not complaining though. 
Still 'ere, aren't I?”

Louis laughed politely and nodded before replying:

“Woe be me if something should happen to you. Losing customers, I 
cannot afford that?”

“You're not losing me soon enough. Keep the scotch coming, and 
I'll manage.”

Louis let the glass of scotch slide across the wooden bar and 
looked Ethan straight in the eye, his face almost a pale shade of 
dark under the dim candlelight surrounding the bar:

“What news from your friends in high places?”

Ethan shook his head and made a strange, sour face for a moment. 
He brought the glass to his lips, sniffing the aromas:

“Nothing yet. It's not easy, you knew that. Not to mention 
there's money involved. But it'll take time Louis. Your visa 
isn't exactly top priority.”

Louis shook his head in disappointment, and started polishing a 
basket full of washed glasses. His eyes were fixed to the task at 
hand when he replied to Ethan with a mixed feeling of sadness and 
slight aggravation, his movements lacking his usual crispness and 
finesse:

“You said by the end of the month, Englishman. Said you knew the 
`ins and outs', didn't you? Who will keep Insami and Wadu off my 
back, I wonder. Make it top priority, can you?”

Ethan kept wearing the same smile that had won him arguments on 
innumerable occasions, while he kept tapping his fingers to the 
rhythm of the song playing from the jukebox. After a short 
uncomfortable silence, he said to Louis:

“It must feel like a kick in the nuts, Louis, but remember, I'm 
doing you a favor. Take a look around you. There's bigger trouble 
than those two thugs. There's a war going on. If they do pop up 
and act like a couple of tough guvs, I'll make sure they get one 
in the sack and lose a couple of teeth each. No use worrying 
about it now.”

Louis looked a bit distraught, his eyes somewhat dull from 
wariness. Ethan tried to change the subject:

”What do you have for me this time? Auchentoshan? Glenfiddich? ”

Louis became his professional self again; he seemed to relax a 
bit, his tense mouth loosening into a tight smile. He reached for 
a tall cupboard with a lock on the handles, and used a small key 
that hung from a chain around his neck. He opened the cupboard 
with small, graceful movements of his hands, as if opening an 
icon or a shrine. In it, a dozen bottles of Littlemill sat, dusty 
and squat, seemingly quite authentic seal, cork and all. At the 
sight of the bottles of scotch and the prospect of savouring them 
at his leisure, Ethan's face lit up and his blue eyes seemed for 
a moment to sparkle. His voice couldn't contain his enthusiasm:

“Littlemill? Thirty-two years old, triple distillation. Bugger 
me, oldest malt in Scotland. Let me see that bottle.”

Louis complied even though anyone could tell from his face he was 
quite puzzled. Ethan was usually interested in the contents, not 
the labels.

“Here you go, englishman.”

Ethan completely disregarded the bartender's effort at a 
light-hearted insult and studied the bottle's labels with focused 
interest. At length, he nodded appreciatively before adding:

”From Ayrshire, too.”

Loui asked with real curiosity while opening the bottle of 
Littlemill Ethan was still clutching like a scepter:

“Is that the place for the best scotch?”

Ethan let go of the bottle and while Louis put a single cube of 
ice in Ethan's glass, he continued, his expression emanating a 
scholarly aura:

“'Tis the ancestral birthplace of the greatest scot that ever 
lived. William Wallace.”

The name of the famous scottish hero was intoned with reverence 
and pride. It seemed to have no effect on the Guinean bartender 
who casually asked:

“Who is he?”

Ethan blinked twice and was taken slightly aback when the name of 
the greatest Scotsman that ever lived rang no bell. He 
nevertheless straightened his back and breathed deeply when he 
tried to explain to Loui.

“William Wallace was the greatest scotsman that ever lived. 
Fought the English for the freedom of Scotland for over a dozen 
years. They killed his wife and family and in the end he was 
betrayed. He gave his all, William Wallace. Biggest set of stones 
ever.”

Loui looked at Ethan in puzzlement as he uncorked the fine 
scotch, its smoky aroma wafting upwards, arousing the senses. His 
question seemed to flatten Ethan's face right at the moment his 
nostrils had become so excited:

“But Scotland isn't free. You serve the Queen of England.”

“That's not entirely true, I serve the Queen of the United 
Kingdom.”

“But there's no Queen of the Scots, is there?”

“She's also Queen of the Scots. And the Welsh. And the Irish. 
Well, at least some of the Irish.”

“See, that's not unlike the situation here in Nigeria. The Igbo 
are like the Scots, they want to be free. Shouldn't they be free?”

“I don't have a say in that. It's not my job, and it's not my 
people. If they can, they will. And if you want to know, my 
father might have been born in Glasgow but I grew up in 
Kensington, so piss off with the Scots and all that. Pour, for 
the love of God.”

Louis smiled wryly before he retorted:

“You brought the subject to my attention, Captain.”

Ethan was starting to get properly wound up when the door bell 
rang and attracted his attention. He looked up from his drink and 
saw Louis pointing with his long bony index finger to a sturdy, 
tall and fit black man dressed in fatigues, the beret of the 
Nigerian Marine Corps smartly adorning his head. The man's eyes 
peered vehemently through the haze and fog of the smoke and dust 
that seemed to always twirl lazily in the Metropolitaine.

The soldier's gaze quickly settled on Ethan, who was spinning 
around on his barstool to look at the newcomer directly. He 
cracked a smile and gave a mocking half-salute to the burly man 
who - judging by his epaulets - appeared to be a brevet Major. 
The man did not seem to share the same good humor and did not 
salute, neither did he seem to enjoy smiles and levity a lot. As 
he approached the bar, Ethan's mood had swung again towards his 
sweet side and he cheerfully made a gesture at the still open 
cupboard full of Littlemill, greeting the man with a proposition:

“James, this is a once in a lifetime chance for a once in a 
lifetime experience. It's Littlemill. It's the nectar of the 
Gods. It'll be monumental James; getting plastered with the 
finest scotch in the whole country, with little doubt. So, what 
is the unhappy occassion of your visit here in uniform? Tell me 
all about it so I can forget it with the help of Louis and 
Littlemill. Is it remotely serious? Are the Biafrans hurtling 
shells at Lagos? Can I go home now?”

The heavily set man had a quite intimidating appearance. The 
capability of severely wounding a man armed with nothing but his 
hands was the usual first impression. At odds with his brutal 
image he had a strangely calm and serene demeanor, a grim look on 
his face that implied his mind was occupied with grave matters. 
He approached Ethan and taking off his beret he calmly said:

“It's your brother, Ethan. We have reports their caravan was 
probably attacked today. Somewhere in the jungle near the border. 
They never reached Owerri.”

Ethan's smile evaporated. He suddenly looked somber and 
withdrawn. The news were a mood killer to say the least. He 
looked at James with wary, stern eyes:

“Red Cross is supposed to have Army support. Where was their 
support, James?”

James' bulky shoulders shook with a disarmingly vulnerable shrug. 
He embraced Ethan with a single arm and told him in a friendly, 
casual manner:

“Let's have a drink, Ethan. Let's talk.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

Business in the Metropolitaine was in full swing. A small gang of 
sailors were celebrating one of their mates birthday, following 
the custom of drinking till the botswain comes looking for them. 
Louis kept a wary eye on a couple of strange-looking figures, but 
other than that the orders kept coming in and that made him a 
happy man.

Ethan was sitting opposite James at a small round metal table in 
a corner near the bar, looking far from jovial. What James had 
told him had suddenly turned this war into a personal matter, 
something that every professional soldier tried to avoid. A 
well-known but sadly overlooked factor in dying was doing stupid 
things for all the wrong reasons, and making a war something 
personal was both stupid and wrong.

James had fallen silent for a couple minutes silently sipping at 
his wine, a local plonk variety that barely passed the mark. 
Ethan was down to his last couple of cigarettes, chain-smoking 
ever since they had sat down to talk. At length, Ethan broke the 
uncomfortable silence:

“I should have pulled some strings when he told me he was going 
in with the Red Cross. Red tape, paperwork, passport trouble. 
Surely someone you know in the Interior could have been of some 
help. Maybe forced him to stay in Britain, somehow. Don't know, 
really.”

James motioned a definite `no' with his head, eyes closed shut. 
He then had another sip before answering:

“You know there are many ways to come into Nigeria. If your 
brother wanted to come, he would have found his own. There's 
nothing you could have really done to prevent him from coming 
here in the first place.”

Ethan drew heavily on his cigarette and exhaled briskly. He spoke 
with some irritation:

“True enough, that. Maybe you could have detained him when their 
caravan set off for Biafra? I could have spoken some more sense 
into him. It doesn't matter now, does it?”

James was as calm as before, answering with a flat and 
emotionless voice, trying to calm down Ethan as well:

“Not a Red Cross caravan. How would it look in the papers if 
Nigeria blocked the Red Cross? It would look like we want to let 
children die of dysentery and famine. No, we could not have told 
your brother to just stay put. It was not my job, and not yours 
either. It was his choice, his life.”

Ethan put out his cigarette, drank the rest of his drink in one 
go and made a gesture with his empty glass to Louis who seemed to 
notice almost immediately. Ethan then looked straight into James' 
eyes; a set of dark eyes accented by the small bit of white that 
surrounded them. He tried to calm himself and find the 
appropriate words:

“You are right about that.. Maybe I should have just whipped him 
good like when we were still ten years old. But he's a grown man, 
a doctor no less. He has his duties, his obligations. Like I have 
my own. Though I still think it was a stupid thing to do, at 
least he acted like the man he's supposed to be. He wanted to 
help, he signed up with the Red Cross. Never really saw meself 
how lying down on the grass all day long, smoking grass and 
fucking like rabbits could stop people from dying. Still, a 
stupid move coming here.”

There was a pause. Louis was returning to their table with 
Ethan's refill of Littlemill and a clean ashtray. Ethan nodded 
his thanks to Louis who in turn bowed slightly and fleeted off to 
serve some other table. James had rested his arms on their table, 
his frame too large to comfortably seat himself in the 
Metropolitaine's plain chairs. Ethan took a mouthful of 
Littlemill and flinched when he felt the malt burn down his 
throat and into his stomach. He then went on:

”I know, war's no place for idealists and romantics. That's 
probably why I'm still alive. That, and an awful amount of luck, 
I'd wager. Maybe Andy's doing a better job than I ever could. I 
mean, in the grander scheme of things, him being a doctor and all 
that. Can't really tell why I didn't stop him. I just couldn't, 
you know?”

James blinked languidly and sipped the last bit of his wine. He 
set his glass down with a clang before replying:

“Someone has to try and save the world. People like your brother 
think they can. Like every hero should.”

James grunted with a hint of disapproval and Ethan grimaced with 
slight annoyance at that contemptive gesture. He lit up one of 
the last cigarettes in his pack and inhaled thoroughly:

“Well, I wouldn't know. I'm not exactly in the business of saving 
people, am I? You could say we're sort of antagonists, me and 
Andy. Kind of reminds me, we used to be in opposite teams when we 
balled.”

“I didn't know you play cricket.”

“Haven't ever since I got a leg injury in Kenya. Nasty business 
that was. Almost got meself killed. Young, stupid and rash. Also, 
quite a lucky bastard.”

James expression seemed to change somewhat. He removed his hands 
from the table and for a moment sat still, looking at Ethan 
intensely. He then ordered another drink from Loui, who seemed to 
keep a watchful eye at their table more so than the others and 
nodded promptly, disappearing at the back for a couple of 
minutes. When James spoke next, he was lighting up Ethan's last 
cigarette, Ethan affording nothing but a stunned surprise and a 
deep furrow:

“Were you any good at it?”

“What, cricket? I thought you didn't smoke.”

“I'm a man of many talents. And some vices as well.”

“Well, I hope you're not a Rolling Stones fan as well. It'd be a 
real crime to find out you've been hiding that too.”

James drew on his cigarette and threw his head back, letting off 
a small cloud of smoke. He was smiling when he pointed to Ethan 
and said:

“Not much to hide, Ethan. Sometimes I smoke. Usually alone.”

Ethan nodded with a sly grin on his face. He sipped another 
mouthful from his glass of scotch which was disappearing fast. 
James was toying with the ice in his glass when a slight grin 
formed on his face, droplets of sweat running down his forehead, 
glistening dimly in the hazy, poor lighting of the 
Metropolitaine:

“A better chance than cricket, true enough. A bad leg won't leave 
you behind.”

“It isn't just the bad leg. I'm not a cricket fan really. Andy 
loves it though. At least as a kid he did. Used to drag me along. 
The bad leg is just a reminder.”

James seemed to stiffen suddenly. He straightened his back before 
reaching for his glass, his voice a bit shallow and distant:

“Which is worse, Ethan? The memories, or the leg?”



“It's the memories alright. Hadn't seen him in four years. Rarely 
called. Never wrote. He must've thought I couldn't care less. But 
it's the job, you know? The distance.”

James interjected mildly:

“The scotch too?”

Ethan drained his glass, as if a real thirst was driving him and 
answered:

“That too.”

James was looking at him through bloodshot eyes, his glass of 
wine empty once more. He sat upright in his chair, drew audibly 
through his large nostrils on the thick air of the Metropolitaine 
and made a hand signal for another round of drinks, making sure 
that Louis brought two glasses of Littlemill. Ethan's gaze was 
fixed on the ceiling fan above them. He looked distantly 
thoughtful, grim and withdrawn, far from his usual self. He 
turned his eyes to his empty glass and spoke with a touch of 
anger behind each sentence:

“I need to find my brother. I've never left a man behind in my 
life. Brought everyone back. I can't leave me own brother behind. 
It's Andy for God's sake, hasn't hurt a fly in his life.”

James seemed at once somber and surprised, his eyes narrowing 
dangerously:

“Ethan, there's a war going on. What is on your mind?”

Ethan picked up their drinks from Louis' passing tray in mid-air, 
and replied:

”Go look after him. Find him. Bring him back.”

James shook his head disapprovingly:

“A fool's errand. Even if he's alive, it could get you killed. 
The both of you.”

“It's not an errand and I'm no fool either, I'm a scot. From my 
mother's side.” 

James stare had begun to pierce through Ethan's eyes, casting a 
gaze hard as stone upon him: “You must be out of your mind,” he 
said in a hushed voice.

Ethan shrugged indifferently and retorted:

“I've done more than my fair share of mistakes. I know this isn't 
one.”

James voice had a slow quality about it that showed his 
determination:

“You'll need all the help you can get then. If it's going to have 
any meaning or chance of success.”

Ethan cracked a smile and drank a tiny sip of Littlemill, 
noticing he was almost out of scotch. Louis then appeared out of 
nowhere with the grace of a dancer. He offered them the bottle of 
Littlemill he had opened earlier. There was barely enough scotch 
in it for just another drink. 

“Gentlemen, compliments of the house. And you can keep the bottle 
too, if you like.”

Ethan nodded his thanks and laughed despite himself, while James 
still sat there looking at Ethan seemingly unable to discern 
whether or not the man was simply drunk and already grieving, 
making up ideas. He asked Ethan, the stress in his voice showing 
he wanted to be convinced:

“You are sure you are going to do this? I want to help. But I 
want to know I'm not risking my neck for some jungle antiques, 
Ethan Whittmore. And it could mean my neck, literally. I need you 
to be deadly serious. All the way.”

Ethan's reply was as sharp as his pervasive eyes:

“I got nothing left apart from Andy. Nothing that matters anyway. 
Job's shit nowdays. No wife or kids. He's all I got, James.”

James shrugged, his large set of shoulders tensing up his 
fatigues almost to the point of tearing. He then told Ethan:

“He could be already dead, you know that. He might be a white 
English doctor, but no matter how useful he may prove to any 
captor, bullets are not very picky.”

Ethan went on, his fists clenching instinctively, his eyes 
shining with a crystal clarity that he rarely exhibited:

“Then I'll bring back the body to Glasgow and lay him down in the 
ground. I'll do what I can, James. I'll do anything.”

James fixed his stare on Ethan, as if he was measuring him up:

“What are you going to do? Quit first thing tomorrow?”

Ethan smiled bitterly and said:

“Maybe I should. They wouldn't let me though. Operational needs, 
lack of personnel, that sort of thing. The service wants to fuck 
you three ways to Australia if they can. Can't even put in for 
leave, not at such a short notice. Listen, do you think you could 
arrange some sort of training exercise? Any reason that will 
demand me being attached to somewhere outside Lagos. Gone for a 
week or two. If all goes well, then I'll see what I'll do. If 
not, it won't really matter from then on.”

James took a mouthful of Littlemill without preparing himself. 
Unaccustomed to strong liquor as he was, he looked as if he was 
about to vomit on the spot but he managed to contain himself. He 
shook his head in affirmation and said:

“I can do that. I can do more than that. I can keep you informed; 
give you locations, rumors, troop movements, any intelligence 
that passes through me. Anything that would help you find your 
brother and keep you alive at the same time. I even think I can 
cook up a `real' operation. We can then use regular radio traffic 
to keep in contact without suspicion.”

“Can you do that? I'll need to leave as soon as possible. 
Tomorrow night, the day after tomorrow at the latest. I have to 
pack my gear, and maybe borrow a couple of things as well, with 
your help. Then I need to do some itinerary checking.”

“Are you planning to follow the same path as your brother's 
caravan?”

“Yes, all the way. I'll start from Lagos, to Benin City, then 
Asaba, through Onitsha and into Biafran territory. From then on, 
it's Owerri.”

James nodded appreciatively. He asked with a hint of worry in his 
voice:

“What happens when you're in Biafra? What happens if you find 
your brother?”

“You mean when I find Andy. Bring him back, what else?”

“I mean, how do you plan to do that? What if he's injured? A 
prisoner, or a hostage? What if he's weak, wounded or sick? Don't 
tell me you'll hitch a ride back or carry him yourself if you 
have to.”

“I will if I have to.”

“Are all scots on their mother's side as foolish as you? I'll 
bring a helicopter. We can arrange a landing zone through the 
radio. If we lose contact, we'll have two pre-determined LZs, at 
two different times. I hope it doesn't get to that.”

“You'll do that?”

“Helicopters fly without flight plans all the time. I don't have 
pilot wings for show, Ethan.”

Ethan grinned at the hint of mischief. James landed him abruptly 
once more though:

“What are you going to do when you're inside Biafra though? How 
are you going to run around, an Englishman like you, with no 
papers whatsoever? Or are you just going to let everyone know 
you're a military advisor for the Nigerians, so they can perhaps 
torture you before shooting you on the spot?”

Ethan seemed a little skeptical, but at length he managed a 
reply:

“I have something in mind for that. I may have a contact, through 
the embassy. An old friend. He might be able to forge some 
papers, make me look legitimate. A photographer, or a journalist. 
Someone who can get in and out with relative impunity.”

“There's no such thing as impunity. Tolerance maybe. A journalist 
would be a good cover; they're always looking for sympathy from 
the press.”

Ethan nodded in agreement and paused toughtfully for a few 
moments. He then looked at James as if he knew he was already 
asking too much of his Nigerian friend, but nevertheless went on 
and told him:

“James, you've been a good friend while I'm here, helping me ease 
into the situation. We're like-minded, you are a damned good 
professional if I've ever seen one, your cooking's great but why 
are you doing this for me? It can't be that you're risking so 
much at such a time just to help a white man from Scotland. I 
consider you a comrade-in-arms, a friend I wish I can drool with 
over a bottle of scotch when I'm hopefully old enough to pee on 
my pants. But tell me, why exactly are you risking your life and 
career? If it's about money, I assure you I ..”

James slapped Ethan hard across the face, the shock from the hit 
leaving him dazzled for a while. His voice was like gravel on a 
tin, his face trembling with aggravation:

“You insult me. I come to you as a friend, and you insult me 
thinking me a gold-digger. You have a knack, all the Englishmen 
seem to. You're so blind to what really is right in front of you. 
I consider you a friend too, so I'll consider this a slip of the 
tongue. You're under emotional pressure, you've had some drinks. 
I'll forget you ever said it.”

James exhaled deeply and seemed to calm down. The timbre of his 
voice turned to something affable, a voice unusually soft and 
mellow, full of memory and sentiment:

“You want to know why I want to help you with whatever means at 
my disposal? Because I myself had a brother once. A brother who 
bled his hands so I could grow into the man I am today. A brother 
who buried our parents with his own hands. I lost that brother. I 
lost Enkele. I lost him and while I could have done something 
about it, I simply watched him go away, never to return. I've 
been in your place Ethan. I know you're doing what I should have 
done years ago. And I want you to find your brother. That, I 
swear unto God.”

Ethan looked sullen and embarassed. He cleared his throat before 
saying:

“I'm sorry James. I'm sorry I offended you. You've never told me 
much about him.”

James laughed mirthlessly before replying:

“What is there to say, Ethan? Perhaps it was his fate. Like we 
have ours.”

“You believe in fate, then? Think all this is part of it?” 

“It doesn't matter if I believe. No-one can escape the webs of 
fate, believer or not. We should do well to remember that.”

Ethan emptied the rest of his glass in one go, and pour what 
little was left in the bottle of Littlemill to the both of them. 
He then raised his glass in a toast:

“To Andy.”

And James replied:

“To Enkele.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The British embassy in Lagos stood out as the typical colonial 
building of the Africas, resplendent and austere, an indubitable 
legacy from the golden years of the Empire. Its tall, thin 
windows shone with the brightness of the noon sun when Ethan 
walked through the front gate saluting the guard on duty only 
perfunctorily. He ran straight up the stairs to the 2nd floor, 
simply ignoring any and all who tried to be of assistance. The 
door of the Director of Cultural Affairs office was half-open. 
Ethan knocked briskly and entered without waiting for an answer.

Once inside, he saw a man in his late fifties, short and 
miniscule. The man wore a thick mustache, had an almost 
completely bald scalp and a pair of old-fashioned ebony-rimmed 
glasses. The label on his desk read `Isidor Bloom - Director of 
Cultural Affairs'. He looked up from his seemingly casual reading 
material and immediately popped a smile. Even though they had 
only occassionally met at a couple of Embassy dinners, he offered 
his hand in a lively, warm way and said:

“How do you do? Jolly good I hope, old friend. Please, do have a 
seat. Now, what was it that you wanted to speak to me about? I 
believe on the phone you said it was an urgent personal matter 
that somehow involved my desk. Would you care to elaborate? I can 
only be of real help if I know what we're dealing with here, dear 
fellow. In the strictest of confidence, of course.”

Ethan shook the hand but still felt somehow a little out of 
depth, his inherent distrust of spies kicking in despite the 
man's cordial manner. Unaccustomed to protocol and etiquette, 
Ethan dived straight into the matter and said bluntly:

“Mr. Bloom, I need a cover.”

Isidor Bloom blinked once or twice with an unwavering, somewhat 
unnatural smile, and seemingly quite baffled, replied:

“I beg your pardon, what kind of cover are you talking about Mr. 
Whittmore?”

Before Ethan had time to elaborate, Mr. Bloom had furrowed his 
brow, waving a `no-no' finger at Ethan. He got up from his chair 
and leisurely closed the door of his office. Ethan could only 
frown with genuine puzzlement while Mr. Bloom sat down again 
comfortably, lit his smoking pipe and had a puff. He then asked 
Ethan while looking him directly in the eye, his gaze strangely 
unnerving:

“Do you ask for a cunt when walking into a brothel, Mr. 
Whittmore? In such delicate matters, a little more room for 
maneuver is usually required. You'd ask for a girl or a woman, 
perhaps even some company. Not for a cunt, which what brothels 
have on offer. Are you following me, son?”

Ethan looked ever more perplexed, especially by the sudden change 
of mood in the middle-aged man. He understood he had been too 
blunt, but while trying to think what to say next and especially 
how to apologise, the public servant leaned closer to Ethan 
before continuing:

“Listen, old chap; everybody knows what we're doing here and 
everyone, including us, knows we're just doing pottery and 
traditional art exhibitions. On Thursdays there's a bagpipe 
night, though. Savvy?”

Ethan nodded numbly despite not actually understanding all too 
well what the man was trying to get at. Mr. Bloom saw the 
confusion written on Ethan's face and after sighing slightly, 
continued:

“Right. Well then, let's make things easier for you, and 
expediate the process. Is there someone I can call on your 
behalf? Someone who can help me, help you?”

At that, Ethan replied automatically, as if he had been waiting 
for that question for some time:

“Yes, sir. That would be Ian Ruthers, a personal friend.”

As suddenly as before, Mr. Bloom's attitude switched back to his 
jovial, well-mannered and quite expedient self. Wearing an almost 
disconcertingly wide grin on his face, he picked up the phone on 
his desk, dialed a single number, and said:

“Hello? Jenny? Put me through to Bristol. Yes, yes, definitely.”

A small wait ensued, which was reason enough for Ethan to start 
sweating even though the temperature inside the room was quite 
pleasant. Mr. Bloom kept smiling and nodding in a reassuring 
fashion, which only accentuated the weird stressful feeling 
anxiety that had overcome Ethan. Mr. Bloom was then heard talking 
over the phone:

“Hello? Leonard? Yes, it's me Isidor. Long time no see, but it's 
business again I'm afraid. Is Ruthers one of yours? I see. Is he 
hot right now? No? Ah, splendid. Could you tell him to give me a 
call please? Yes, my office. Well, right about now would be 
indeed a perfect time. I'd like to get on with this before lunch. 
Yes, well she's fine, working on her garden and all that. How's 
Marie? Loved her cherry pie last Christmas, marvellous stuff 
really. Would love to, old chap. Have your man call me, alright 
then? Goodbye Leonard, don't forget to give my regards. Goodbye.”

Once he hang up the phone, Mr. Bloom surprised Ethan once again 
with his choice of words:

“Fucking cunt can sod off. Now, let's clear up a few things: This 
friend of yours, Ruthers, can sod off as well. If he's going to 
push something for me down my pipe, that's fine and all. I don't 
give fuckall about the why or how. Do you understand that? I'm 
going home to Cheltenham before Christmas, and this desk can rot 
on my piss. And just so that you know, the cock around here 
tastes awful so brush often and have a care with that mouth of 
yours.”

Mr. Bloom put out his pipe, placed it in his shirt pocket, picked 
up his hat and strolled out of his office, careful to smoothly 
close the door behind him.

Ethan stood frozen in his chair, unable to fathom what exactly 
had transpired. The only certainty was that Mr. Bloom had 
probably been for too long in the service. Ethan's thoughts were 
interrupted by the phone ringing. Hesitating at first but then 
thinking it should be Ruthers on the other end of the phone line, 
Ethan picked up the receiver:

“Hello? Ian? It's Ethan Whittmore. Well, what can I say? Didn't 
expect to hear me on this end, did you? What am I doing here? 
Well, first of all -- yes, I know I'm terrible. No, it wasn't -- 
I know I shouldn't be even talking to you like this but I need 
some help, Ian. No! I'm not married. Can you be serious for a 
minute? How you're working for Six I'll never understand. Well, 
now that I saw the guy in the Nigerian desk perhaps I do 
understand. Listen. Just listen. I need some cover. It's Andy, my 
brother. I need to go into Biafra. No joke. There will be no 
widow to comfort, so stop being a cunt and help me over here. 
Right, then. A piece of paper? I'm on it.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

James rolled a cigarette. Real imported tobacco, confiscated from 
Customs. A smile, a joke and a tap in the back usually go a long 
way. Especially when you're six feet tall and slightly less 
stocky than a bull. That was something that Ethan had said when 
they had first met. A piece of wisdom from Britain's finest.

He lit his cigarette and sat down on a chair across the kitchen 
table. A hefty fish lay half-eaten, its maws showing a slightly 
serrated set of tiny teeth. The smell of roast dominated the room 
and through an open window the grill on the small porch could be 
seen; a few coals were settling down, their heat meaningless in 
the suffocating summer night of Lagos.

A wedding feast was being held down the next street, the gathered 
crowd milling about like a colourful circus troupe, dancing and 
singing with vigor despite everyone being thoroughly drenched in 
sweat. James peered mirthlessly at the small spectacle and stared 
blankly for a minute or two, as if his thoughts were completely 
disconnected with what was going on in front of him.

The crowd brought the groom to the fore, the improptu stage the 
middle of the street, and made a circle around him. He was all 
dressed up, smiling brightly. Everyone showered him with flowers 
and small gifts, while they danced to a deep, rhythmic beat of 
drums. His face seemed to shine almost imperceptibly with a gold 
sheen that somehow looked only natural under the light of the 
torches.

The burning tip of the cigarette fell on James' arm. He shook 
instinctively, ash marking the spot of the slight burn on his 
skin. His face didn't flinch though, nor did he seem to notice 
his cigarette was out. The phone in the bedroom was ringing with 
a mindless persistence that only a salesman would envy.

When James finally got up from his chair, the phone was ringing 
again. He stormed outside dressed in nothing but his shorts and 
ran towards the moving wedding feast barefooted. As he ran, he 
ran his tongue across his lips but couldn't tell his tears from 
his sweat.

Well met on an ill road

“Hello, Richard Owls. London Times. I presume you must be Dr. 
Ludwig Manteuffel. Glad you could take me in on such a short 
notice.”

A somewhat plumb, blond-haired man with a scruffy look and a 
thin, wiry receding hair line looked up from his writing pad 
through thick glasses and saw a red-haired, tall and almost gaunt 
man smiling and squinting under the uncomfortably radiant morning 
sun:

“There's room for more, actually. Your editor-in-chief was very 
pleasant on the phone, and quite convincing.”

Ethan laughed politely and replied, tilting his head only barely 
so he could shade his eyes at least:

“He's a wily bastard, I'll say. When he can tell his arse from 
his elbow that is.”

The doctor extended his hand casually and smiled, a bit puzzled:

“I hope he's not exhibiting a cognitive disfunction of such 
proportions. It could prove quite problematic in his line of 
work.”

Ethan shook the doctor's hand with some hesitation, shaking his 
head in ignorance:

“I can't say I'm quite following you, doctor.”

Dr. Manteuffel wiped the sweat on his forehead with the arm 
holding the writing pad and exhaled briskly with the hint of a 
slight laugh:

“Distasteful doctor's humor, Mr. Owls. Can I call you Richard? 
Please call me Ludwig, we'll be on the road together for some 
time. This isn't exactly a dinner party we're going to, yes?”

A number of people around them was busy loading the Land Rovers 
with all sorts of crates, bags, and sacks with everything from 
gauzes to canned food and flour. Ethan looked quite accustomed to 
the heat and the Nigerian sun, at odds with the stocky german 
doctor who seemed to be discomforted immensely, even though he 
tried his best not to show it. Ethan nodded with a sparkly grin 
and said:

“Can't see any drinks on offer, and the timing's off too. Ludwig, 
then?”

The german doctor motioned with his pad to the paltry shade 
offered by a nearby tent filled with crates stamped with the sign 
of the Red Cross, and Ethan lead eagerly. The doctor replied:

“You can also call me Baron. It's a nickname my colleagues often 
use, jokingly of course.”

“No real title then?”

“Oh, the family name is old and at some point there was some land 
associated with it. The land was sold but the title stuck. The 
war, you see.”

Ethan put down his knapsack and welcomed the shade, settling on a 
crate. His eyes seemed suddenly old, staring outside at the crowd 
of volunteers when he said:

“There's always some kind of war going on. Isn't that why you're 
here now?”

The doctor put down his pad on one of the crates, pulled a 
fold-up chair from a corner of the tent, spread it open and sat 
down, his relief obvious in the way he splayed his feed, heels on 
the dirt. He took a few short breaths before answering in a 
peculiar, thoughtful voice:

“I'm here to help in what way I can. Famine and disease are just 
as lethal as bullets from what I've seen. But why are you here?”

Ethan frowned in puzzlement and smiled in his usually disarming 
way. He tried to sound casually baffled when he said:

“Tell the world what's going on in Biafra. Take some pictures. 
Perhaps ask London for a raise too once I'm famous.”

The doctor put one leg on the other and seemed somewhat 
distraught, perhaps worried:

“So, a professional. I was hoping for a bit of a romantic you 
see. Every help we can get is better than none at all. And 
frankly, you look like you don't need much help in these parts.”

Ethan crossed his arms against his chest, purely an instinctive 
defensive motion that only helped to show his nervousness. His 
charm didn't seem to work as intended, and his sly grin was his 
way of showing he genuinely liked the plumb Prussian doctor for 
his openness:

“What can I say, I've been places. Suez. Kenya. Angola. Vietnam.”

The doctor reached into his sweat-stained shirt's pocket and 
procured a pack of Camel's. He put one into his mouth and 
proferred one to Ethan as well, who politely nodded his refusal, 
the grin unwaveringly attached on his tanned face. The doctor got 
up from his seat, while searching around for something to light 
his cigarette, while replying in a slightly muffled voice:

“I'm sure you enjoy travelling. A lot, I might add. Light?”

Ethan laughed and felt somewhat unburdened. He offered Dr. 
Manteufel a lighter from one of his pants' side pockets:

“I can't really say what's on your mind, Ludwig.”

The doctor lit his Camel and seemed to cherish the moment before 
answering, his eyes squarely meeting Ethan's gaze before asking 
him straight:

“Are you going to be trouble? We don't need any more trouble 
where we're going.”

Ethan took his lighter back and answered the doctor, the sudden 
quietness in his voice the only indication that he himself was 
somewhat uncertain:

“I want to stay out of trouble as much as you do.”

Ludwig drew on his cigarette once more, this time exhaling 
briskly and adding hastily:

“Good. That's good. Thank you.”

Ethan nodded in silence before the doctor went on:

“I just want to help these people, and stay alive in the process. 
Is it too much to ask?”

“No, I suppose it's not.”

Ludwig then put out his cigarette in the dirt and wiped his 
forehead once more. He seemed to mumble to himself:

“Good man. A good man.”

Ethan noticed and asked the doctor, his voice right on the edge 
of doubt:

“How can you tell?”

Ludwig looked at him with some reluctance before replying:

“I can't. But I have hope.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]Space inside the Land Rover was at a premium. Not an inch of 
space had been wasted; in fact it almost seemed like the 
passengers inside were actually intruding on the cargo space and 
not the other way around. Ethan though had come up with a very 
comfortable-looking seating arrangement on top of a sack of rice, 
along with a wooden crate for his back and a couple of bags to 
put his feet up on. Him and the doctor had been riding along 
together at the rear of the small convoy of Land Rovers.

Ludwig was sweating profusely, and kept dabbing his forehead and 
face with a small hand towel, in an effort to make his suffering 
a little less unbearable and a little more obvious. Ethan had 
been either sleeping on and off as if the car's continuous jerks 
and the road bumps were sort of a lullaby. Their driver though, 
was invariably focused on the task at hand, barely even 
breathing, much less so talking. Ludwig could not stop himself 
from asking, straining his voice to be heard over the roar of the 
diesel engine. Even though at previous times he hadn't received 
an answer he could make good use of yet, his pitch had an air of 
optimism about it:

“Are we going to stop any time soon, Olufemi?”

The driver's answer was curt and to the point.

“Yes.”

Ludwig, who would otherwise consider an endless talker a nuisance 
at best, looked right on the edge of aggravation, Olufemi being 
so brusque that he felt as if he was doing him a favor by even 
considering an answer.

He made another effort to engage in conversation or at least 
learn some hopefully interesting information about their 
whereabouts:

“Well, could you refine that somewhat? How soon exactly, is soon? 
More or less, of course.”

Olufemi paused for a moment before answering in his usual, 
quietly dry manner:

“Before nightfall.”

Ludwig nodded to himself, and tried to clear his parched throat 
with little success and even less spit. Ethan had a contemplating 
look drawn upon his face, his gaze darting from bush to grove. He 
held his camera in hand, the swarm of flies seemingly rather fond 
of him. Ludwig tried to get his attention, engage in some kind of 
discussion to relieve himself of dullness:

“That camera.. It's a Leica, right?”

Ethan turned to face Ludwig with a furrowed brow, and having been 
caught unawares asked rather plainly:

“I'm sorry?”

Ludwig repeated himself, this time almost shouting:

“The camera. It's a Leica M3, right? Some very good equipment you 
have there.”

Ethan shrugged indifferently, effortlessly shooting down Ludwig's 
hopes. A prolonged silence followed once again, regularly 
interrupted by the creaks and croans of the Land Rover's chassis. 
As the evening wore by, flies began to give their place to the 
mosquitoes. Ludwig was fighting a losing battle with the 
blood-sucking insects, and his utter annoyance was more than 
evident in his quiet and unintelligible swearing, in what sounded 
like german. Ethan on the other hand was looking outside the 
windows, over the grassy hills lush with vegetation, tall 
coconut-like trees and distant mangroves. The swampy savannah 
could be seen drawing distant with every passing minute, and 
Ethan's eyes seemed to glitter with a sparkle born of an itching 
need to meld inside that scenery.

He then turned and addressed Olufemi in Yoruba, unmistakably 
ghastly sounding to a native speaker, but decent enough to be 
understood. The driver suddenly burst into laughter and started 
talking vividly with Ethan, in a torrential flow of phrases 
intermixed with laughs, giggles and extravagant hand gestures. 
Ethan was responding in kind, and judging by his tone, sometimes 
asking, sometimes filling in and sometimes simply nodding. 
Olufemi even made eye contact with Ludwig once, before breaking 
down in laughter and finally being able to settle down to his 
invariably dull and sullen mood. Ludwig looked at Ethan with eyes 
that shone rather irregularly and a voice slightly reminiscent of 
gritted teeth:

“Care to share, Richard?”

The last word came out with a hint of aggravation, while Ethan 
countered the irate mood with an almost flippant radiating smile, 
before adding vivaciously:

“He thinks you talk too much.”

Ludwig raised his brow and nodded, right before instinctively 
slapping his arm, trying to kill a mosquito. Before the doctor 
could have the chance to retort in a manner unbecoming of a 
doctor, Olufemi suddenly cut in:

“For a doctor. We dem almost dere. See, near the clearing.”

Both of them looked up ahead to where the road steered off course 
and into a dirt path that seemed to lead slowly upwards onto a 
ridge of sorts. Ludwig asked then with barely conceiled 
exhilaration:

“Is that where we stop for the night?”

Olufemi gave a nod instead of answering properly, while Ethan was 
looking more and more at the sky, rosy and purple hues lighting 
up the gathering clouds like cotton candy. While the last light 
could be seen falling around them, Ethan said with some 
disappointment:

“It's going to rain like the devil, that's for sure.”

The driver nodded his silent agreement, while Ludwig said with 
the slightest hint of irony:

“I thought Brits liked rain.”

To which Ethan commented wryly:

“We like rain alright. It's all that water we could live without.”

Olufemi started laughing again, and this time Ludwig managed to 
crack a smile. Ethan laid back on his sack once more while the 
first droplets of water gathered on the windshield. Ludwig 
retorted with a grin:

“And the rest of us could be spared your dry sense of humor as 
well.”

Ethan lit up a cigarette and drew a puff before answering:

“Well said.”

As Ludwig joined him sharing the cigarette, the falling droplets 
of rain grew into a proper tropical storm, causing even Olufemi 
to exclaim:

“Dis dey proper fuck.”

Ethan was about to translate when Ludwig tried to make himself 
heard over the din of the storm:

“I think I get the idea, Richard.”

Visibility had been reduced to the car up ahead, and only thanks 
to the powerful headlights. The caravan was moving with a walking 
speed, carefully treading on a dirt path barely wide enough to 
euphemistically call a road. Olufemi made some colourful remarks 
about the driving conditions, to which Ethan replied while 
putting out his cigarette:

“At least we're not being shot at.”

Ludwig stabbed Ethan with a gaze unusually hard and firm for such 
a light-mannered man and asked him:

“Would it make good press?”

Ethan shrugged and before having time to answer, a blinding flash 
lit the area in front of them and in the blink of an eye they 
felt the overpressure of a shockwave on their eardrums. A wall of 
dirt and mud seemed to go up in the air, lifting with it the 
chassis of the Rover in front of the column. Ethan's shouting was 
barely heard through buzzing eardrums:

“Landmine! Get out! Now!”

Olufemi let go of the wheel, their car bumping on the Rover in 
front. The flaming debris of the destroyed Land Rover could be 
seen, lying on the edge of the road. Pandemonium ensued.

“What was that?” Ludwig asked with a slight tremor in his voice. 
The answer from Ethan came accompanied with a powerful shove:

“Landmine or RPG! Now move! Out of the car!”

Olufemi was faster to comply, opening his door and rushing out, 
nervously searching for more flashes and explosions, but none 
came. Ludwig tried sloppily to make his way out of the doors in 
the back of the Rover, while Ethan expertly opened the window on 
his back and drew himself out.

He immediately started shouting to the bewildered people in the 
caravan, some of which had already stepped outside their Rovers:

“Get out of the cars! Lay down on the dirt and don't move!”

Ethan's eyes were frantically looking for signs of movement in 
the torrential rain, the light from the headlamps the only source 
of illumination. There were no muzzle flashes, or launching 
trails. There was a lot of shouting and confusion, but the 
characteristic hammering sound of AKs in the distance was absent. 
This was not an ambush. Ethan's voice took on an authoritative 
yet calming tone:

“Calm down. Stay put. Noone's shooting at us. It was a landmine. 
Tell the people next to you to calm down and stay put.”

Everyone was drenched from the torrential rain. All around him, 
Ethan could see faces frozen in sheer terror, some of them 
visibly shaking. Olufemi had started shouting calls to the other 
drivers in Yoruba, when Ethan's instincts kicked in; he quickly 
walked over him and put a hand to his mouth. Olufemi was 
surprised and looked at Ethan sideways, giving him a look of 
frustrated fear. Ethan put one finger to his mouth while shaking 
his head, and let go of Olufemi's mouth:

“We don't need no shouting, not in Yoruba. Understand? Not around 
these parts.”

Olufemi could only nod. Rather baffled though he was, he motioned 
with his hands to the other drivers who had his attention to `lay 
low'. With fear and hesitation as plentiful as the rain pouring 
down on them, the drivers seemed to comply, some of them already 
on their knees and praying.

Ethan was trying to clear his head and calmly tell these people 
what to do next, Ludwig came up from behind him, the sound of his 
approach muffled by the rain and the din from the people in 
shock. Ethan caught his shadow from the corner of his eye and 
twisted around sharply, grabbing Ludwig from one arm, while 
placing his foot to act as a pivot. Before having time to 
actually see Ludwig, he was already throwing him down to the 
dirt, still grabbing his arm.

Ludwig splashed in the mud yelling:

“It's me! It's me! Scheisse!”

Ethan let some of the adrenaline wear off before picking up 
Ludwig and offering his apologies:

“Sorry I jumped on you. It's a conditioned reflex.”

Ludwig could not help but shout irately:

“Conditioned reflex?”

“Just so happens, yes. Never mind that, we need to get these 
people off the road. Someone fucked up the itinerary. Olufemi!”

The driver turned and nodded, shaken but evidently quick about 
his wits. Ethan leaned slightly toward, shouting to be heard and 
pointing at the column of stopped rovers and the frightened 
crowd:

“Stay on the Rovers' tracks. Tell the rest of the drivers to get 
the people inside. See if anyone's wounded, get the doctors 
working on them. We're safe as houses then.”

Olufemi nodded and carefully started walking towards the first 
Rover, while the people were already starting to shout out 
questions and demand explanations while at the same time sobs and 
cries could be heard. Ethan started walking up the front of the 
column, carefully passing by people and telling everyone to be 
calm and emphasize they were safe.

Once he reached the debris of the first Rover, he saw the people 
in the second car had bled out of their ears, and were probably 
dead and scared still. Ethan took a closer look: the driver was 
still on his wheel, tensed up and nervous. The explosion had 
shattered the windshield, and along the water that had pooled 
inside there was what remained of a shattered, blown away arm. 
The driver had shattered fragments of glass all over his face, 
and his eyes were a bloody mess.

Ethan shouted to Ludwig:

“Ludwig! Grab a first aid kit, and come up front! Face injury! 
Try to stay on the tire tracks!”

Ludwig seemed to nod affirmatively and disappeared in the back of 
the Rover. Ethan grabbed the blind man from one arm and told him 
nothing. He simply squeezed him gently and felt the man's blood 
pumping like a flooded river.

Once Ludwig arrived he shot a quick glance at the blown up 
vehicle, and quickly turned to say something to Ethan who shook 
his head in denial:

“Not a chance, mate. I'm sorry. Enough explosive to throw five 
thousand pounds six feet in the air. It's a bloody miracle this 
one's lost just his eyes instead of his head. The others are in 
the back, scared shitless, a bit deaf probably but otherwise in 
one piece.”

Ludwig nodded appreciatively and focused on the task at hand, 
trying not to think about what Ethan had said meant. His motions 
were calm and professional, as if he was working in an 
examination room. Ethan urged him to hurry up, while he took a 
few steps forward. He took out a flashlight from one of his 
pants' pockets and took out a large leaf-shaped knife. 

He went on a crouch towards the crater the landmine had left, 
carefully studying the ground, digging in with the knife at 
seemingly random intervals. Going past the crater, his eyes 
avidly scanned the mud. Before long, even under the unabating 
rain and all the mud he caught a glimpse of a dull olive-green 
shape barely protruding from the slippery ground. A careful prod 
at the rim from the knife let him know this was another landmine. 
A few feet to his right, he could make out the outline of 
another. A slow sweep with the flashlight uncovered two more, 
less than ten feet apart. He left them unbothered, slid back to 
the crater and got up.

He went back to Ludwig, while a certain amount of quiet and calm 
had started to settle among the crowd. Olufemi could be seen 
quietly exchanging concerned looks with the other drivers, some 
of them already inside, trying to light up a smoke.

“It's a proper god-awful minefield,” said Ethan to Ludwig.

Ludwig was still dressing the eyes of the driver, after having 
administered some sedatives for the excruciating pain that would 
follow the end of the adrenaline rush. He was dripping wet, 
smeared blood all over his hands and shirt.

“Your deductive reasoning amazes me,” said the doctor with an 
aggravated tone. Ethan replied calmly:

“It could have been a single land mine, an old ambush site. No, 
this was a proper minefield, there's probably more of them around 
the bushes and trees. We need to go back. I don't know who 
decided on this itinerary, but it wasn't safe. Killed those 
people in the Rover, and it might have killed us all. Might still 
as well. We need to get moving.”

Ludwig suddenly stopped tending to the wounded driver. He closed 
his eyes and seemed to whisper something in German. Ethan told 
him sternly:

“What are you blabbering about? They're dead, Ludwig. Come on 
now, pull it together.”

The doctor exploded with fury at Ethan:

“I picked the roads! It was me! So fuck you, Mr. Owls!”

Ethan fell instantly silent, knowing there was nothing meaningful 
to say to the doctor, who in the next moment leaned on the side 
of the Rover, and threw up.

Olufemi noticed from the back, and came a bit closer to see, 
while everyone had gotten inside the Rovers by now, still shocked 
and bewildered but calm enough to try and deal with what had just 
happened on their own. Ethan explained to Olufemi as he 
approached:

“We need to go back, around another way. It's probably best if we 
can stop someplace near. Anything in mind?”

Olufemi seemed to think about it for a while, and then nodded 
with a renewed vigor:

“Yes, dey is a mission,” his voice ringing clear through the 
never-ending rain.

“What kind of a mission?” asked Ethan with a hint of puzzlement 
in his voice.

“French Catholic. Nuns,” replied Olufemi with a very peculiar and 
untimely grin.

Ludwig suddenly stood straight, still hanging on to the Rover's 
door though, and said with a pale face:

“We're going back. This caravan is no more.”

Rivulets of rain ran freely down Ethan's taut face when he said 
with the slightest hint of irony:

“How are going to help then, doctor?”

“I'll have no more blood on my hands. I can never -”

“You're scared out of your mind, I know. Maybe you've shat 
yourself, or pissed on your pants. Can't tell with the bloody 
rain. It's only natural. You'd be really fucked up inside if you 
didn't feel fear.”

“It doesn't matter what I feel, damn you! These people trusted me 
with their -”

“Signed the papers, didn't they? Listen, this is fuckall, 
alright? You can't think straight. Olufemi, take point in our 
Rover. I'll drive this one. Doctor, seriously, grab a couple of 
sedatives yourself and just hang on. Alright?”

Ludwig stared blankly at Ethan, while Olufemi hurried to spread 
the word to the other drivers. Ethan moved the driver in the 
co-driver's seat, and told a practically deaf nurse and a 
volunteer helper with a broken arm that they were leaving now. At 
length, before he urged Ludwig to get in the Rover, the doctor 
asked him:

“Do you know what you're doing?”

Ethan had heard that same question probably a thousand times from 
a hundred different people. And even though he felt naturally 
inclined to grin and answer `bloody hell no', he calmly said to 
the doctor:

“It will be alright now. Just get in the car with Olufemi, and 
try not to think about anything.”

The doctor feebly complied, making his way to the Rover with a 
slouch, while Ethan was thinking he was turning into an 
accomplished liar.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

